4. (U) Administration and Logistics


    a. (U) Administration


        (1) (U) Enemy Prisoners of War.  At gunpoint, each EPW will be searched, back to front, lying flat on the ground, arms and legs extended.  In the case of multiple EPWs, each will be secured and segregated, with no more than 2 per fire team.  Silence EPWs utilizing gauze gags and medical tape, and black-out goggles.  Utilize NATO standard EPW tags and zip lock bags to tag and maintain confiscated items.  Pick up of EPWs will be coordinated by the squad leader through the platoon sergeant. Squad leaders are responsible for establishing pre-planned EPW collection points with platoon leadership. Evacuation will be via ground with support from Weapons Platoon to the Company AA.  The platoon sergeant will coordinate the evacuation through the Company First Sergeant who will maintain tracking of EPWs.


        (2) (U) CASEVAC.  All casualties will be immediately treated and communicated to the platoon commander.  Urgent and priority casualty evacuations will be coordinated by the squad leader through the platoon sergeant. Squad leaders are responsible for establishing pre-planned casualty collection points with platoon leadership.  Primary means of evacuation will be via ground with support from Weapons Platoon, secondary by air.  The platoon sergeant will coordinate the evacuation through the squad leaders and push information to the Company First Sergeant.  Once the evacuating element is dispatched, the squad leader will conduct the link up via radio (primary) and secondary signal (smoke).  The casualty will be transported back to the Company Assembly Area at LZ 7 and will be tracked by the Company First Sergeant.  Routine casualties will be cared for upon return to the Company AA.


    b. (U) Logistics


        (1) (U) Ammunition.  Draw one day of supply (DOS) for ammo and batteries from the Co GySgt prior to insert.


        (2) (U) Chow and Water.  Draw one day of supply (DOS) of chow and a full load of water prior to insert.


        (3) (U) Resupply.  Limited resupply will be available on call via Weapons Platoon and the Company Gunnery Sergeant. 