4. (U) Administration and Logistics 
 
    a. (U) Administration 
 
      1. (U) Enemy Prisoners of War. EPWs will be handled with STRESS. Upon consolidation, move all prisoners to 3 o’clock on Bn Obj 1 to be collected by the Co GySgt who will coordinate extract with the S-4. 
 
      2. (U) CASEVAC.  2d Platoon will develop a CASEVAC plan from the PRP through their consolidation on Co Obj A. Coordinate all CCPs and plan with Co XO and Co 1stSgt for supportability. Establish CASEVAC LZ to the S of Co Obj A for all priority and urgent casualty evacuation upon consolidation on Co Obj A. All main body casualties from LD to the Assault Position will be initially treated by the platoon corpsmen. Platoon Corpsman will determine priority level. Priority and urgent casualties will be coordinated with the Co 1stSgt for immediate evac via air at hasty LZs enroute to the objective. From the Co (-) Assault position to consolidation all casualties will be treated by platoon corpsman and collected according to the platoon’s CASEVAC plan. Upon consolidation, all casualties will be moved to a casualty collection point (CCP) located at 6 o’clock on Bn Obj 1, where the Co Corpsman will treat and triage the casualties. The Co XO and Co 1stSgt will coordinate all casualty evacuations through Battalion TAC 2 according to priority assessed by the company corpsman. Primary evac for all priority casualties will be air. Alternate will be ground. All routine casualties will be evacuated by ground transportation as required. 
 
    b. (U) Logistics 
 
      1. (U) Ammunition.  Draw three days of supply (DOS) for ammo and batteries from the Co GySgt NLT 1000. 
 
      2. (U) Chow and Water.  Draw three days of supply (DOS) of chow from the Co GySgt NLT 1000.  Ensure all hands possess four quarts water prior to LD. 
 
      3. (U) Pyro.  Each rifle platoon will have 3 GSCs, 3 WSCs, 3 WSP’s, 3 GSmk, 1 RSC, and 3 YSmk. 
 
      4. (U) Resupply.  The CoGySgt will handle the coordination for resupply upon consolidation at the obj.  Platoons should pass any logistics requests to the CoGySgt via the appropriate net.  Main Packs will be staged in the AA and brought forward once the Company has consolidated on the objective.  Marines will wear Assault Packs on the mission. 