Orientation:  The Company is currently located at UTC FOB. The Company sector is UTC bordered by Tokyo Rd to the West, MCB-5 to the East, MCB-8 to the North, and LZ Kiwi to the South. MSR Tampa is the MSR that runs N-S through MOUT Town. 


Civilian Considerations: Currently we have a limited understanding of the residual civilian populace within UTC as the populace returns to the town. What we know right now is that there is a civilian population of around 50-75 personnel in the town. The language is Spanish, with predominantly the religion being 70% Muslim, with around 30% Christian. The population tends to be significantly male heavy, at about 80%, with the women largely being regarded as homemakers, predominantly focused on child-rearing near the homes. The largest industry is farming in this AO, with the predominance of farmland growing poppy to the north of UTC. There is no known infrastructure such as plumbing and electricity in the town. UTC is predominantly divided into three districts, UTC A, B and C. The C sector is the central area of civilian population with a central marketplace IVO C35 and C36. General pattern of life are personnel conducting bartering and trading in that area during the periods of daylight. There is one known culturally sensitive area in this sector, being the Mosque at C58. Residents largely live within the C sector. In the B sector, population is sparse. There are heat signatures that appear to be residential in the NE corner of this sector, as well as some along the main E-W running MSR on the S side of the sector. In the A sector, there are very limited amounts of civilian personnel. We have identified limited heat signatures of what appears to be military age males that live and work around buildings A21-22 and A24, this group tends to rarely leave this portion of the town or move towards the farmland. These personnel have been seen moving at times to buildings within the C sector, but largely only one or two at a time. The only known governmental infrastructure in the UTC is the Police Chief, who works IVO C07. HUMINT has made contact with this individual via WhatsApp and he is our only known contact on the deck. Our assessment is that he is looking to re-establish the way of life in UTC, but has limited security forces in the AO. We assess that he will be our best POC to establish a long term security relationship with the populace here. The only significant breach from pattern of life has was last week when there appeared to be an explosion IVO A39. Based on civilian chatter picked up via cell phone comms, there was talk of a little girl being injured due to some fertilizer that caught fire near that building, permanently maiming the girl. Pattern of life since then has largely returned to normal, but market place operations were largely suspended for the three days following the blast. 