3. (U) Execution


    a. (U) Commanders Intent.  The purpose of this operation is to prevent the MRA from interfering with humanitarian efforts and conducting intimidation campaigns.  The enemy’s center of gravity is their depth provided by numerous small-sized units conducting harassing attacks and reconnaissance throughout our AO. The enemy’s critical vulnerability is their inability to mass and concentrate their forces due to their lack of mutual support and command and control.  I will exploit this vulnerability by conducting simultaneous squad attacks on isolated MRA units.  My desired endstate is that the MRA is destroyed and unable to conduct operations IVO Camp Barrett, our AO is clear of MRA forces and humanitarian efforts have complete freedom of movement to and from LZ 7.


    b. (U) Concept of Operations


        (1) (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  Our platoon direction of attack is West from LZ 7. We will conduct independent squad attacks throughout the AO on suspected enemy defensive positions during daylight hours.   We will have two supporting efforts (SE) and a main effort (ME).  At 0900, each squad will independently depart our AA at LZ 7. Depending on the objective, squads may be inserted via vehicular assets by our Weapons Platoon. Initial formation of movement will be squad column.  NLT 1100, each squad will have destroyed any MRA forces IVO their objective.  The main effort will destroy MRA IVO Platoon Objective 1 at TH 864 641.  SE 1 will destroy MRA IVO Platoon Objective 2 at TH 865 635.  SE 2 will destroy MRA IVO Platoon Objective 3 IVO TH 863 634. After assaulting through their assigned objective, each squad will consolidate in the direction of the enemy, contact the platoon commander, and be prepared for follow-on operations.  Each squad leader will be responsible for determining their distribution of forces, formations of movement, additional tactical control measures, and form of maneuver to support their attacks.  All squads will return to the Company AA NLT 1900. Mission has priority.


        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.  


            (a) (U) Task.  Limit the MRA’s ability to affect friendly units with direct fire weapons.


            (b) (U) Purpose.  In order to allow 1st platoon to destroy the MRA without being affected by direct fire weapons.


            (c) (U) Method.  


                1. (U) We will utilize company’s 60mm mortars in support of this attack.  1st Platoon has priority of fires.   1st, 2nd, and 3rd squad are each allocated one priority target during the operation.  Restrictions: None. 
        
            (d). (U) Effects.  Neutralize MRA forces in our area of operations.


    c. (U) Tasks


        (1) (U) 1st Squad.  You are the platoon’s ME.  NLT 1100, destroy MRA unit IVO TH 864 641 IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts along Washboard Road.  You will insert via foot IVO LZ-7.


        (2) (U) 2nd Squad.  You are the platoon’s SE 1.  NLT 1100, destroy MRA units IVO TH 865 635 IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts along Washboard Road.  You will insert via foot IVO LZ-7.


        (3) (U) 3rd Squad.  You are the platoon’s SE 2.  NLT 1100, destroy MRA unit IVO TH 863 634 IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts along Washboard Road. You will insert via foot IVO LZ-7.


    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions


        (1) (U) Direction of Attack. Company – North, Platoon – Multiple Directions  


        (2) (U) Formations for Movement. Determined by squad leaders.   


        (3) (U) Tactical Control Measure.  


            (a) (U) AA: LZ 7


            (b) (U) ATK POS: Determined by squad leader


            (c) (U) LD: Determined by squad leader  


            (d) (U) ASLT POS: Determined by squad leader  


        (4) (U) Timeline  
0715                Ammo Draw, Comm Draw, PCCs (Initial Inspection)
0745                Squad Orders Process
0845                 Final PCCs and Radio Check with Platoon Commander
0900                   Insert/Cross LD
NLT 1100        Enemy destroyed on objective
NLT 1900        RTB


        (5) (U) Lost Marine Plan.  Squad leaders are responsible for developing their own Lost Marine Plans. 


        (6) (U) MOPP Level.  MOPP Ready.  Intel reports enemy has used a blood agent in the past and is currently capable of employing a blood agent.  