 3. (U) Execution 
 
      1. (U) Commander’s Intent.  The purpose of this operation is to allow the Centralian government to resume communications with the local populace throughout the Quantico Highlands. The enemy’s Center of Gravity is their prepared defense in-depth with the ability to coordinate direct and indirect fires established around the communications facility. The Critical Vulnerability is that as a result of this defense in depth, they have split forces and are no longer able to mutually support positions with direct fire weapons. We will exploit this CV by conducting a conditions based sequential (near simultaneous) attack on the defensive positions to generate tempo and overwhelm forces before they can reinforce or coordinate indirect fire support. My endstate is that the communications facility is seized and returned to Centralian government control enabling their ability to resume communications with the local populace in the Quantico Highlands, the enemy no longer has any influence on the comm facility or surrounding area, and the company is consolidated at the communications facility, prepared for follow on operations. 
 
      2. (U) Concept of Operations 
 
                        (1) (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  We will conduct a flanking attack with one ME, two SE. DOA is North. We will move from the AA to the Atk Pos in a company column (SE2,ME-SE1), crossing the LD at the Platoon Release Point (PRP). From the PRP, SE 1 will move along an independent route and destroy the enemy in vic of Hill 419 (Co Obj A) which will set conditions for the ME attack on Bn Obj1. The company(-) will continue N in a column (SE2-ME) along the E side of Hill 464 to the Company Aslt Pos (NE side of Hill 430), where we will transition to an online formation (ME-SE1). Once SE #1 destroys the enemy on Co Obj A, the Weapons Platoon Commander will call for 5 minutes of indirect fire suppression on Bn Obj 1. Upon effective suppression of the enemy from IDF on the objective, the ME and SE #2 will seize Bn Obj 1 assaulting from East to West. On signal, the company will consolidate on the objective in a 180 degree perimeter oriented north (ME from 8-12 o’clock, SE2 from 12-4 o’clock). On signal, SE 1 will displace and link up with the rest of the company on the objective, with ME from 8-12 o’clock, SE2 from 12-4 o’clock, SE1 from 4-8 o’clock. 
 
                        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.   
 
         1. (U) Task.  Limit the enemy’s ability to employ direct and indirect fire weapon systems on Company Objective A and Battalion Objective 1. 
 
         2. (U) Purpose.  IOT allow to maneuver elements to close with and destroy the enemy on Battalion Objective 1 and Co Obj A. 
 
         3. (U) Method.   
 
            1. (U) I will use the battalion’s 81mm mortars and the company’s 60mm mortars in support of this attack for the ME and SE2. Co FiST leader will develop TTLODAC for ME attack on Bn Objective 1. 
            2. (U) 2d Platoon commander submit your TTLODAC for the attack on Company Objective A. You are allotted two targets. Submit your list of targets to the company FiST leader.  
 
                                  (d). (U) Effects.  The enemy on Company Objective A and Battalion Objective 1 are suppressed allowing the maneuver element to close within direct fire weapons range. 
 
            c. (U) Tasks 
 
      1. (U) 2d Platoon.  You are SE 1. NLT 1500, destroy the enemy IVO Co Obj A in order to prevent them from interfering with the Co ME attack on Bn Obj 1. On signal displace to Bn Obj 1 and link up / consolidate with the rest of the company. BPT suppress the enemy on Bn Obj 1 in order to allow the ME to seize Bn Obj 1. BPT assume the mission of the ME. 
 
      2. (U) 1st Platoon.  You are the ME. Upon effective IDF suppression, seize left ½ of Bn Obj 1 in order to allow the Centralian government to resume communications with the local populace throughout the Quantico Highlands. 
 
      3. (U) 3rd Platoon.  You are SE 2. Upon effective IDF suppression seize right ½ of Bn Obj 1 in order to support the MEs seizure of the comm facility. Detach 1 Fire Team to provide security for the 60mm mortar section, effective immediately. 
 
      4. (U) Weapons Platoon   
 
                          (a) (U) 60mm Mortar Section.  60mm Mortar Section. You are in GS of the company. Establish a firing position in the vicinity of our AA, direction of fire 6400 mils. FIRECAP NLT 1200 and BPT receive fire missions. Priority of fires are to 2nd platoon, 1st platoon, then 3rd platoon. You have one fireteam from 3d Plt for security attached, effective immediately. 
 
    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions 
 
        (1) (U) Timeline   
        0530         Co Commander issues order to Plt Commanders 
0630          Platoons issue orders
1200:         LD 
 
        (2) (U) Formation for Movement.   
 
         1. (U) AA to Atk Pos to LD/PRP.  Company Column – 3d Plt, Co HQ, 1st Plt, 2d Plt. 
 
         2. (U) PRP to Co Obj A.  Determined by 2d Platoon Commander. 
 
         3. (U) PRP to Co Aslt Pos.  Company Column – 3d Plt, Co HQ, 1st Plt, 2d Plt. 
 
      3. (U) Lost Marine Plan.  Each platoon is responsible for developing their own tactically sound Lost Marine Plan. Be prepared to brief me on your plans. 
 
      4. (U) No Comm Plan.  If radio communications are lost at any point between the AA and the PRP, we will immediately halt and spend no more than five minutes in an attempt to regain them. Upon determining the extent of the communications problems, I will make the decision to continue with the operation without communication. Once we have passed the PRP, time is critical due to the independent movement of 2d platoon. Upon departing the Co(-) Aslt Pos, we will continue the operation even if radio communications goes down due to our conditions based, event driven SOM. If unable to radio 60s to commence suppression, we will utilize a white star cluster (WSC) to signal suppression commencement. If that fails, we will utilize SE1 as an SBF to provide suppression for the ME. Once we have assaulted through the objective and consolidated, we will attempt to establish communication using the Communications Facility or via other means (messenger) with BN. 2d Platoon: You are responsible for developing your own No Communication Plan. 


      5. Priority of Rehearsals. Determined by platoon commanders. Each squad will print off and cut out (1) STEX TCM kit and bring appropriate resources (yarn, etc.) to facilitate squad orders delivery.
 
      6. (U) MOPP Level.  Zero. 
 
      7. (U) Rules of Engagement.  Engage only Hostile Forces and Combatants. A Hostile Force is any person that has committed a hostile act, exhibited hostile intent, or has been declared hostile by appropriate U.S. authority. Positive Identification (PID) is required to engage.