III. Execution.   


A. Cmdr’s Intent 


Purpose:  Establish a secure local environment for the indigenous population so they can pursue their economic, social, cultural, and political well-being and conduct civic reconstruction IOT achieve local governance achieve some degree of local normalcy. 


Method: 
CG – the ability to blend into the local populace gives the enemy the freedom of movement to emplace IEDs and initiate harassing attacks on US forces.


CV – the enemy’s small size prevents them from massing and sustaining contact with friendly forces.


Exp – We will exploit the enemy CV by providing a continuous security presence to the area that disrupts the enemy’s ability to emplace IEDs and conduct attacks. 




End state: The irregular CRF forces are eliminated and the civilians are able to pursue normalcy of living. Remaining CRF forces are eliminated and civic reconstruction efforts continue unopposed. 


B. Concept of Operations:


1. SOM: We will have 1 ME and 2 SEs. Direction of Movement (DOM) is generally north. SE 1 will depart the Company FOB at UTC and make movement north to the intersection of Tokyo Road and MCB-8 where they will establish a hasty vehicle checkpoint. SE 2 will protect a resupply patrol and then stage at UTC FOB to act as QRF for the ME. The ME will depart the Company FOB and make movement west to UTC where they will conduct a security patrol. All Units are required to develop their own routes and back brief the Company Commander prior to departing. Upon completion of the mission the platoons will execute the Company rotation plan IOT sustain security presence in the area. 
        
 FSP:  500m No Fire Area (NFA) has been established by the BLT Co over MOUT Town and UTC Bravo.  


C. Tasks:


(You) 3rd Platoon: You are the ME. O/O Interdict CRF forces IVO UTC IOT deny enemy forces the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts in the Company’s AO.


2nd Platoon:  You are SE 1. O/O Establish a hasty vehicle checkpoint IVO the Toyko Road and MCB-8 intersection to interdict CRF forces IOT deny enemy freedom of movement in the AO.


1st Platoon (MOUNTED Patrol Platoon):  You are the SE2. O/O, protect the resupply convoy from MOUT FOB to link up point IVO LZ STORK in order to resupply the Golf Co Class V (ammo) to support their operations. BPT stage IVO UTC FOB to serve as Co QRF for adjacent platoons cutting operations within UTC.






D. Coordinating Instructions:


(1) 500m NFA over town UTC.
(2) DOM: North and North/West for all units
(3) TOA: O/O
(4) Rules of Engagement: A considerable number of civilians have returned to the village of UTC. Individuals carrying a weapon are NOT declared hostile. Engage only Hostile Forces and Combatants. A Hostile Force is any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or terrorists, with or without national designation, that has committed a hostile act, exhibited hostile intent, or has been declared hostile by appropriate U.S. authority. Hostile forces may also be called Enemy Combatants. Hostile Act (HA): an attack or other use of force against U.S. forces. Some examples of possible hostile intent are an individual burying a suspicious cylinder along a road (likely improvised explosive device), an unknown armed group massing in your area of operation, or an unknown vehicle speeding to catch up with your convoy. Positive Identification (PID)* is required to engage. 
*Positive Identification (PID): A reasonable certainty that your target is a legitimate military target. 
*PID does not require 100% certainty. You must have clear line of sight to target and know what is behind it.
(5) ORP:  UTC FOB 
(6) LD:  FOB ECP
(7) Timeline: Platoon Commanders will develop individual timelines.  Plan for roughly 2 ½ hours prior to LD through consolidation and re-supply.   
(9) ME: Upon entering UTC you must link up with the town Police Chief IVO building C07 in UTC IOT conduct a partnered patrol with local police forces. 
(10) Reporting Criteria: Enemy contact (Engagement or Sniper Fire), IED find, Casualty, Upon reaching checkpoints.
(11) MOPP Level: MOPP Ready.  Intel reports enemy has used a blood agent in the past and is currently 
capable of employing a blood agent.    