I. SITUATION.
        A. Enemy.
                1. Composition, Disposition, and Strength.  Since we have commenced military operations from DZ Raven and LZ 7, enemy forces were observed withdrawing from the Raven/7 AOs and pushing North both directly into the Northern Centralian Highlands and NE around TA16, then re-entering across the Centralia border from the N.  Currently there is a platoon(+) to company (-) size unit of the MRA conducting squad size and smaller operations.  They have been conducting ambushes, to include two within last 24 hours on relief convoys taking supplies to Centralian civilians.  These patrols are armed with a mix of U.S. and Soviet Block small arms and wear woodland pattern utilities and have typically been squad size elements.  They have limited night vision capability and 82mm mortars. Within the last 48 hours EN UAS has been spotted in the area.
                2. Capabilities and Limitations.
                        (a) Defend.  CRF/MRA forces are continuously mobile, and are limited in their ability to defend, unless they mass to plt size strength.  They will attempt to defend their cache sites at all costs.
                        (b) Reinforce.  CRF/MRA forces could reinforce amongst their fellow squads if they are able to establish communications quickly enough.
                        (c) Attack.  CRF/MRA forces could conduct a deliberate attack if they mass to plt size strength.  They are also capable of attacking like size or larger elements by conducting ambushes.
                        (d) Withdraw.  CRF/MRA forces can withdraw from engagements if given a clear avenue of egress and outnumbered.
                        (e) Delay.  CRF/MRA forces can delay our forces from conducting our stabilization and security mission if given the opportunity.
                3. EMLCOA.  Enemy forces have been forced from the DZ Raven and LZ 7 AOs and are now attempting to establish a presence in terrain further North, believing that we will maintain our presence and not pursue them.  Although our enemy has abandoned AOs when it was proven that we could defeat him in a patrol vs patrol fight, he will continue to fight as squad/FT size elements because of his fear of our indirect fire allowing us to mass on his position if he becomes stagnant.  I believe the enemy will position the majority of his forces throughout the TA16 areas, conducting reconnaissance, attempting to establish safe havens, establishing ingress/egress routes, and gathering information and intelligence on the border regions.  Enemy squad size forces will engage like size and smaller forces and if in an advantageous position, will continue to remain engaged until forced off the terrain or they have reason to believe IDF assets are coming to bear upon them.  If in an equal or disadvantaged position, the enemy will withdrawal from their position.
        B. Friendly.
                1. Higher.  Alpha Co, SE1, NLT 1500, INTERDICT MRA/CRF forces in TA16 in order to exploit our success in DZ Raven/LZ-7 and prevent further MRA infiltration into the Centralian Highlands.
Endstate – Enemy forces prevented from massing combat power and a foothold established by F Co within the Centralian border region of TA16.  


                2. Adjacent.
                        (a) 3rd Plt, ME, NLT 1500, INTERDICT in TA 16E and 16B, IOT prevent the MRA from infiltrating through TA-16 Province and massing combat power.
                        (b) 5th Plt, SE1, NLT 1500, INTERDICT in TA 16D and 16A, IOT prevent the MRA from infiltrating through TA-16 Province and massing combat power.
                        (c) Combined Anti-Armor Team (CAAT), Bn SE, NLT 0800, SCREEN along hardball roads in TA-16 Province IOT deny the enemy freedom of movement South.  BPT provide CASEVAC support to Charlie Company.
                3. Supporting.
                        (a) 60mm mortars GS of Co IVO LZ Peregrine, 18S TH 856 747 NLT 0900. POF 1, 3, 5 
        C. Attachments/detachments. None.

