1. (U) Situation[a]


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  Within the past ten hours, reconnaissance patrols have confirmed the following EN positions: An MRA Company (-) is currently located IVO BN Obj 1 (TH 825 745), oriented W; an MRA platoon (-), at TH 803 736 (Bn Obj 2) oriented SW; and a MRA sqd (+), is located IVO Co Obj A (TH 801 726), oriented NW with a suspected LP/OP IVO (TH 798 729). All enemy units have US style small arms including M4/M16 rifles, M249 LMG, M240 MMG and were observed preparing defensive fighting positions.  In addition, enemy forces have 81 mm long-range IDF capability.


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The MRA is capable of conducting a deliberate defense utilizing LP/OP’s to effectively give them depth wherever they deem to be key terrain. The enemy is limited by their lack of logistics, which will hinder any long-term defense.  The MRA is capable of reinforcing with up to a Platoon from Montanya within one hour if given the opportunity to utilize the MSR networks but is limited by the ability to conduct effective command and control.  The enemy is capable of conducting small harassing attacks while patrolling from their defensive positions but is limited by their ability to mass firepower.  Due to the effectiveness of our offensive operations, the enemy has a limited ability to conduct a counterattack if pushed from their defensive positions.  The enemy is capable of withdrawing using the MSR network but is limited by the ability to conduct command and control. The MRA is capable of delaying our advance via indirect fires from their LP/OP but is limited by the inability to mass firepower.


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  The MRA Company(-) mission is to block north of MCB 6 IOT retain control of the MSR network.  The current positions reflect the MRA’s last holds in the TAOR. Holding the MSR network is critical to their ability to divert our forces and to delegitimize the Centralian government. The MRA has broken into their usual T/O in order to achieve some depth in their defense reflecting the importance they place on controlling the MSRs.  The enemy is currently fortifying their defensive positions and are likely at 25% security as they dig.  On contact, the enemy has an LP/OP that will serve as advance warning and alert the enemy to our actions. That LP/OP will use 81 mm mortars in order to call long range fires onto our formations and attempt to get us to culminate early or canalize us into their engagement area.  The enemy will then engage us with direct fire, starting with machineguns and then all other small arms, as we progress into their engagement area.  The enemy will withdraw after sustaining 25% casualties but will attempt to reorganize and mount a counterattack.        


    b. (U) Friendly


        (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  O/O, 2/7 destroys the EN MRA units IVO BN Objectives 1 and 2, and Co Obj A IOT deny the EN the use of the MSR network within the AO. The BN CO’s endstate: The EN in the AO destroyed or forced to withdraw, the MSRs open to friendly traffic, and friendly forces consolidated at key intersections IOT deny the EN’s use of the MSR network to resupply EN forces.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) West.  Company E (rein) (BN ME) is to the West. O/O Company E destroys EN MRA Co (-) on BN Obj 1 IOT deny EN the ability to resupply dispersed forces.


            (b) (U) South.  No friendly units are to the South.


            (c) (U) North.  The BN COC (Rear), Weapons Company, Company G (BN Res), and the BN logistics trains are to the North.


            (d) (U) East.  Delta Co LAR is currently conducting screening operations IOT protect our right flank along MCB 6 from LZ Turkey to the MCB 6E Gate to the South.


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars. BN 81mm mortar section is in GS of Companies F, E, and G. The mortar section is located IVO LZ Hummingbird (790        747). 




    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None.