1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  During the past 24 hours, collection assets have reported that the MRA Company is establishing Area Defense with Platoon Battle Positions in order to prevent U.S. Forces from disrupting their offensive operations on Upshur Island. Our specific Company Objectives are as follows: Co Obj A (IVO TH 830 767), Co Obj B (IVO TH 844 769), and Co Obj C (IVO TH 830 778).  Imagery has shown the MRA has small command and control sites IVO of all Company Objectives. The S-2 has determined through reports from inserted scout sniper teams that the MRA are establishing a defense in depth by conducting patrols and ambushes along avenues of approach forward of the platoon battle positions. The MRA units were seen wearing various camouflage uniforms, and appear armed with U.S. small arms to include M4/M16 rifles, M240 medium machine guns and medium (81mm) mortars. The S-2 assesses that the MRA have reliable communications assets and can call for indirect fires. The MRA also appear to have night vision and thermal capabilities.  


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.             


            (a) (U) Defend: The MRA is capable of conducting up to a company sized sector defense through coordinated individual platoon battle positions.  They are capable of conducting a defense in depth through emplacing LP/OPs, conducting patrols and integrating fires into their engagement area. They are limited in their ability to move freely throughout the AO because they commit all of their forces to establishing defensive positions rather than dedicating units to a reserve. 


            (b) (U) Reinforce: The MRA is capable of reinforcing their defensive positions internally with patrolling MRA squads within 30 minutes.  They are limited in their ability to reinforce, by their lack of ability to receive timely and accurate information which indicate approaching forces equal or outnumber their established defensive positions. 


            (c) (U) Attack:  The MRA are capable of conducting harassing attacks through establishing fire team to squad size ambush positions along trails and roads. The MRA is limited in their ability to attack as a result of committing their forces to static defensive battle positions.


            (d) (U) Withdraw: The MRA is capable of withdrawing along roads and trails as a result of their mobile patrols.  They are limited in their ability to withdraw quickly while carrying their wounded and killed.  They are limited by the speed of which they can withdraw because they have minimal vehicle assets. 


            (e) (U) Delay: The MRA is capable of delaying our forces with indirect fires, patrolling operations and established engagement areas.  The enemy is capable of using its patrols and LP/OPs to identify our position in order to call for fire or establish ambush positions. They are limited by their poor communication ability between their units and their limited intelligence assets.


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  The MRA company’s mission is to protect the command and control sites located IVO LZs Vulture, Snipe, and Canary IOT allow offensive operations in our AO.  Currently, the company is establishing Platoon Battle Positions Southwest of LZ Vulture, North of LZ Snipe, and West of LZ Canary. They will likely establish depth by conducting squad sized ambush patrols along likely avenues of approach and security patrols in order to provide early warning of the presence of US forces.  They will utilize LP/OP positions forward of their defensive positions in an effort to extend their observation.  On contact, the MRA patrols will attempt to disrupt our movement to provide the MRA forces additional time to prepare their defensive positions.  Once their planned withdrawal routes are threatened, the MRA squads will withdraw via the most direct route and link up with their established defensive positions in their sector.  The MRA platoon battle positions will defend in depth, utilizing indirect fires observed by the LP/OP or patrolling force, once our forces are identified.  Once our forces enter their engagement area, they will engage with their direct fire weapons attempting to mass their fires on our maneuver element.  The defensive positions will not withdraw in force once in contact due to the importance of the command and control sites and their inability to return to their native country of Montanya.


    b. (U) Friendly


        (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  