1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  Throughout the last 48 hours the MRA have been reinforced at Upshur Island.   S-2 assessments indicate the MRA will reinforce to a Company (+) size. The MRA are known to wear camouflage uniforms and protective armor.  They typically wear US style utilities in both woodland and desert varieties.  Often, they do not match their pattern to the season/foliage.  The MRA forces are currently re-consolidating to conduct offensive operations to regain a foothold after their recent defeats by coalition forces on the island. The MRA are located within RTE 645, MCB 1, MCB 8, and Hangman Tree Rd at, establishing defensive positions in preparation for reinforcements to arrive on island. They are carrying US style small arms to include M4/M16 rifles, M240 medium machine guns, and possess night vision capabilities. Additionally, they have 81mm mortar assets, but their locations are unknown at this time. They have complex communication capabilities, allowing them communication across their entire AO, and the ability to coordinate with their 81mm mortars. They are known to have basic proficiency with their mortars and can usually achieve effects on target with minimal adjustments. The enemy has not been seen using hardball roads and identifiable trails due to superiority of our close air support and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance assets.  Instead, friendly patrols and human intelligence reporting indicates the enemy primarily uses natural avenues of approach such as streams, draws, and game trails.


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  
            (a) (U) Defend: The MRA are capable of defending via their established platoon battle positions. They are capable of defending their positions through forward patrols and LP/OPs coordinating with the main battle position in order to call for indirect fire or prepare for deliberate employment of fires within their established engagement areas.  They are limited in their ability to defend as a result of their limited intelligence assets as they are known to only use UAS systems sparingly and patrolling elements from their defensive battle position.
            (b) (U) Reinforce: The enemy is capable of reinforcing from a platoon to Company (-) within 1.5 hours due to the large number of enemy forces within the AO.  However, they have to gain significant information regarding our composition, disposition, and strength before they will do so.  They are limited in their ability to reinforce due to their lack of reconnaissance assets, delaying their ability to provide timely information required for an effective reinforcement. 
            (c) (U) Attack: The enemy is capable of conducting a complex attack by overlapping indirect and direct fires against a gap in our defense.  They typically employ support by fire positions to provide longer duration direct fire suppression which allows their maneuver element to close with our forces.  They are limited in their ability to attack by terrain and visibility.  They struggle to find effective assault positions and support by fire positions with enough visibility to provide desired effects.
            (d) (U) Withdraw: The enemy is capable of withdrawing along high speed avenues of approach.  However, once committed to the attack, the enemy is extremely limited in their ability to conduct a deliberate withdraw action. 
            (e) (U) Delay: The main enemy force is extremely limited in their ability to delay our actions.  However, squad size or smaller patrols are capable of delaying our occupation of battle positions in order to further mass troops and conduct a complex attack.
        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action. The enemy company’s mission is to seize LZ Duck, LZ Crane and LZ Snipe IOT utilize them as logistical resupply hubs, retransmission sites and prepare for follow on offensive operations at Quantico Island. Currently the enemy has established platoon sized battle positions away from MSRs.  Once they become aware of our insert, they will conduct squad sized patrols in an attempt to determine our disposition and identify TCMs. Upon our insert, I believe their mission will be to initially disrupt our occupation of our battle positions in order to set conditions to seize LZ Drake, LZ Pheasant and LZ Vulture and prevent us developing freedom of movement throughout the AO. I believe they have (3) various Plt (+) sized forces each equipped with at least (1) LMG and MMG squad.  I believe the patrols will attempt to gain intelligence on our positions in preparation for platoon sized attacks.  If the enemy identifies a unit in the process of occupying, they will conduct limited attacks to disrupt our forces to allow them time to reinforce to a platoon sized element and conduct a deliberate combined arms attack.  I expect them to initiate their assaults on our battle positions simultaneously across the AO.  They will begin each assault with indirect fires to allow their machineguns to occupy a support by fire position within 200m of our battle positions.  Once the SBF position has effects on our battle position, their maneuver element will assault one of our flanks, attempting to avoid our main engagement area.  Once the support fires have begun, they will not cease the attack despite taking significant casualties.  If we successfully destroy one or more platoons, the rest of the company will withdraw southwest out of the AO away from Port Upshur.


    b. (U) Friendly


1. (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  


1. Mission: At 2200 on D-Day + 4, destroy the enemy IVO Upshur Island IOT keep Port Upshur open to facilitate logistical resupply.


2. Commander’s Intent: Endstate: Friendly forces control Upshur Island, the MRA are destroyed and unable to reinforce.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) Fox Co: ME At 2200, D Day +3, Fox Co destroys enemy IVO BN OBJ 1 (TH 786 759) IOT deny the En the ability to reinforce at Camp Upshur.
            (b) (U) Golf Co: SE 2: At 2200, D-Day +3, Golf Co destroys enemy IVO TH 797 754, IOT allow BLT to establish CP.


        (3) (U) Supporting. 1 squad of engineers attached, effective immediately, until further direction.  1 MMG Squad from Weapons platoon is attached to each platoon effectively immediately.  


            (a) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars. Wpns Co, 81mm Mortar Platoon is in DS of Company E and will land IVO LZ Redwing.  POF are to ME, SE1, SE2, SE3.


            (b) (U) CAAT 1. CAAT 1 is in DS of Company E and will land IVO DZ Redwing.
    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments. 1 squad of engineers attached, effective immediately, until further direction.  1 MMG Squad from Weapons platoon is attached to each platoon effectively immediately.  
