1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  During the past 24 hours, the MRA have deployed multiple squad (+) sized elements IVO Camp Barrett. Intelligence suggests at least two MRA squad (+) sized units have entered our AO from the South and West of Aquia Creek and the North and West of Road 643. These squads have typically operated in a disaggregated manner, gathering information and familiarizing themselves with the terrain and MSR’s in this area. Recent intelligence indicates that once the MRA have reconnoitered our ASP and logistics hub in LZ 7, they will attempt to conduct harassing attacks on the ASP defenses to determine our disposition and strength, eventually massing to conduct a deliberate attack on our ASP and logistics hub. Total force strength of all the MRA squads in the Company AO appears to be about 30-40 fighters.  The MRA are armed with near peer style small arms including some captured US small arms, M240-Bs, RPGs, and have the ability to coordinate indirect fire. The MRA were last seen wearing desert camouflage uniforms.  Communications are conducted with cellular phones and civilian radios which limits their ability to command and control.


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The MRA is capable of defending their positions but given their small size, they will be unable to defend effectively against squad size elements or larger. MRA is unable to reinforce from outside the AO, while they are capable of limited reinforcement from inside the AO within 45 mins, based on successful communication with adjacent MRA forces in vicinity of LZ 7. The MRA are able to conduct small scale harassing attacks when they can achieve surprise, typically inflicting maximum casualties with light machine guns or small arms before breaking contact and egressing. The MRA is capable of withdrawal, and is likely to withdraw in the direction of MRA forces SW or NE of our AO in order to consolidate their forces as we do not expect them to become decisively engaged.  


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  The enemy’s mission is to reconnoiter our AO and the ASP at LZ 7 in order to enable continued harassment of UN convoys and disruption of the local government. At night, they are conducting ambushes and reconnaissance patrols in our AO, while during the day they alternate between reconnaissance of the AO and defense of their ingress and egress routes. I expect the MRA to defend their ingress routes just outside of our AO with squad (+) size elements. I believe they are at 25% security, moving well-rested fire team (-) elements into our AO during the day in order to provide reconnaissance of friendly force dispositions and early warning to MRA forces. On contact, the enemy fire team (-) elements will defend initially and if not suppressed, attempt to withdraw in the direction of the closest MRA squad position. If they have the element of surprise and advantageous terrain, the enemy will seek to inflict maximum casualties through small-scale ambushes.  I expect the MRA to egress from our AO in the late evening, utilizing the same ingress routes, with new teams infiltrating again in the early morning under the cover of darkness.


    b. (U) Friendly


         (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  (SE) On order, Fox Company clears MRA forces from the AO IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts and conducting intimidation campaigns IVO Camp Barrett.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) Echo Company- (SE1) for the Battalion. Located at LZ Hen (LZ Hen is a large humanitarian distribution center and Golf Company is tasked with defending it).


            (b) (U) 3d Platoon- (SE2) NLT 1100, destroy enemy elements IVO Camp Barrett IOT prevent the MRA from interfering with humanitarian operations IVO Camp Barrett.


            (c) (U) 5th Platoon- (SE3) NLT 1100, destroy enemy elements IVO Camp Barrett IOT prevent the MRA from interfering with humanitarian operations IVO Camp Barrett.


            (d) (U) Weapons Platoon- (SE4) NLT 0900. Protect insert points along Washboard road IOT allow squads to insert via vehicular assets. NLT 1100, interdict MRA forces along MSRs and unimproved roads IOT prevent MRA attacks and use as avenues of approach.  BPT follow and support 1st Platoon’s attacks in the AO and conduct EPW and casualty evacuations. You have eight HMMWV’s and three 7-tons attached immediately.


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Company 60mm mortar firing position located IVO LZ 7.  In direct support of 1st Platoon.


    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None