1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  During the past 24 hours, the MRA have deployed multiple squads throughout the Bordolo Rio region of the Quantico Highlands located northeast of Camp Barrett.  These units are thought to be attempting to build up their combat power in order to prepare for a possible attack on U.S. forces.  At 0500 this morning, BN scout sniper teams sighted numerous MRA squad patrols within our AO.  They are armed with a U.S. small arms and 60mm mortars, and wear woodland camouflage uniforms. The MRA are known to have limited night vision capabilities.  


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The enemy is capable of defending if they are able to capture LZ Hawk and mass to a platoon size or larger. They are limited by their lack of organization as they are dispersed throughout the AO.  MRA units are capable of reinforcing with up to a platoon size within (45) minutes if they are able to reconnoiter a weak spot in our perimeter defense. They are limited by the distance between their units and thick vegetation in some areas. Due to their current posture, the MRA is capable of conducting hasty attacks on units of like size or smaller, also they are capable of attacking a platoon sized element if they either have surprise or can utilize IDF and maneuver into a position of tactical advantage. They are limited by their desire to avoid decisive contact until they have massed to a platoon size or greater.  The MRA are capable of withdrawing along the multiple avenues of approach and will do so if they become decisively engaged with a platoon sized element or if they suffer 2-3 casualties. They are limited by thick vegetation and steep terrain.  The MRA has the capability to delay the occupation of our defensive position or priorities of work if they are able to identify where we are establishing our defense before we establish depth. They are limited by their inability to coordinate indirect fire at the squad level or lower.


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  I believe that the EN’s mission is to seize the FASP in LZ Hawk IOT stage for a follow-on attack on Camp Barrett. The EN is currently trying to build up combat power in preparation for a Plt(+) attack.  I believe the MRA will use small units to probe and infiltrate our defenses in order to gain intelligence on the disposition of our forces.  On contact, I believe the enemy’s most likely course of action is to use indirect fires and light machine guns to suppress our position and conduct a flanking attack with a platoon.


    b. (U) Friendly


         (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  O/O, 2/7 clears the MRA within the battalion’s AO in order to create a stable environment for future elections in the Bordolo Rio Province.  The commander’s desired endstate is that the FASP remains under friendly control, the enemy is unable to conduct an attack on Camp Barrettt, and friendly forces are ready to conduct follow-on missions.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) West.  None


            (b) (U) South.  Company E (Bn SE1).  NLT 0900, clear S of Hidalgo Rd IOT prevent EN infiltration and exploitation of the Camp Barrett logistics base.  


            (c) (U) North.  At 0600, Bn Scout Snipers reconnoiter and observe MRA forces N of LZ Hawk.  Report any observed MRA activity directly to the Battalion S-2.  Reconnoiter IOT provide D Co with an early warning for enemy infiltration from the north.


            (d) (U) East.  Company F (BN ME).  NLT 0900, clear the MRA forces in the Bordolo Rio region of the Quantico Highlands IOT prevent the massing of MRA combat power within our AO.  


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Artillery.  Kilo Battery, 3/11 (the FS component of the BLT) is located in a Gun Position (GP) approximately 5km S of LZ Hawk.  DS of the battalion. POF is to F, D, E


            (b) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars.  81mm Mortar Platoon. GS of the battalion. NLT 0600, they will establish a Mortar Firing Position (MFP) IVO BN COC(fwd), approximately 2km SW of LZ Hawk.  POF is to F, D, E.


    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  (1) Engineer squad attached.