 1. (U) Situation 
 
    a. (U) Enemy 
 
      1. (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  The MRA platoon (defected CAR platoon) is providing security for the facility and is believed to be occupying defensive positions on high ground surrounding the facility. At 0200 this morning, a squad-size force was seen preparing defensive positions on Hill 419 (TH 058 728). It is not known where the rest of the MRA platoon(-) is located. The enemy is armed with U.S. small arms and wears woodland camouflage uniforms. Additionally, they are known to have M240B machine guns and 81mm mortars. 
 
      2. (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The enemy is capable of defending from battle positions with as little as a squad sized element and can coordinate direct and indirect fires in support of their defensive operations. They are limited by a lack of mutual support between squad positions. They are capable of reinforcing with an additional platoon within 30 minutes and would do so once they believe they are in a decisive engagement but are limited by the distance between adjacent units. The MRA are capable of attacking in up to squad sized elements if they have advantageous terrain but are limited due to their desire to remain close to the comm facility.  They are capable of withdrawing via Hidalgo Road in either direction. They are limited by their inability to move quickly in the terrain South of Hidalgo Road. They are capable of delaying through the employment of coordinated direct and indirect fires. They are limited by the dense vegetation which results in limited sightlines to develop early warning.
 
      3. (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  I believe that the EN’s mission is to guard the communications facility in order to allow the MRA to coordinate small unit efforts and the use of indirect fires. Currently, the EN is establishing a defense in depth oriented southwest along the MSR. On contact, the MRA platoon will fiercely defend the Communications Facility. They will fight to gain time using a squad sized forward position, disrupting our attack formations along the MSR IOT allow additional forces time to reinforce the main battle position at the communications facility. They will reinforce the Communications Facility with an additional platoon from the northeast by truck via Hidalgo Road as soon as the on scene platoon commander determines that the forward squad is decisively engaged. The reinforcements will initially focus efforts on reinforcing the forward squad to continue to disrupt our attack and then shift their efforts/remainder of forces to reinforcing around the communications facility to retain the facility. 
 
    b. (U) Friendly 
 
         1. (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  O/O, 2/7 seizes the communications facility (Bn Obj 1) in order to allow the Centralian government to resume communications with the local populace throughout the Quantico Highlands.  The battalion commander’s desired endstate is that the battalion regains and returns control and use of the communications facility to the Centralian government, and the MRA in zone is unable to interfere with the government’s ability to communicate throughout the Quantico Highlands. 
 
         2. (U) Adjacent 
 
         1. (U) West.  Co G. (SE1) NLT 1430, block West of Hill 419 (about 2 km off the W side of the sand table) along Hidalgo Road in order to prevent CRF reinforcements from interfering with the main effort’s attack. 
 
         2. (U) South.  Bn Log trains (SE3) NLT 1430, establish CSS logistics staging areas IVO B AA (about 1 km off the S side of the sand table) in order to allow logistics resupply of forward units. 
 
         3. (U) North.  None 
 
         4. (U) East.  Co F. (SE2) NLT 1430, block East of Hill 419 (about 500m just off the E side of the sand table) along Hidalgo Road in order to prevent CRF reinforcements from interfering with the main effort’s attack. 
 
        (3) (U) Supporting. 
 
         1. (U) Artillery.  Kilo Battery 3/11. DS of the battalion. K/3/11 is located 5 km South of Cedar Ridge in GP Pelican (TH 063 665). POF: Echo, Golf, Fox. 
 
         2. (U) Bn 81mm Mortars.  81mm Mortar Platoon. GS of the battalion. The mortar platoon is located at the battalion’s AA 1 km south of Cedar Ridge at 050 700. POF: Echo, Golf, Fox.
 
    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None 