1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


 (1) (U) Composition, Disposition and Strength. Over the past 24 hours, intelligence collection assets have identified fire team sized units occupying MOUT Town. These units have occupied several buildings and are preparing rudimentary defenses. We believe they are waiting for reinforcements so they can build a mutually supporting, deliberate defense in depth. The CRF are wearing fatigues and carrying both US and Soviet-style small arms. No medium machineguns or rockets have been observed at this time. Their indirect capabilities include possible light mortar systems.  
(2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations (DRAW-D). The fireteam sized elements are capable of defending their positions against a squad (-) sized element by utilizing the cover of buildings and canalizing urban terrain to maximize effects of fires. They are limited by their small size, prohibiting them from defending multiple buildings or a single position against a squad size force or larger. They are capable of reinforcing from within the town to a squad-size. Reinforcing actions from within the town will be limited by the enemies need to maintain a distribution of forces across the town to repel friendly actions. The enemy is capable of conducting harassing attacks and deliberate ambushes at the fireteam level, however they are limited by their inability to mass firepower beyond small arms effects. Any offensive action will be followed with an immediate withdrawal. The enemy is capable of withdrawing to subsequent fireteam fighting positions or falling in with a larger squad sized position. The enemy will be afforded a myriad of building level withdrawal routes to facilitate this. He will be limited in his ability to utilize these egress routes as they are open areas of observation lacking cover from concealment or the effects of fires. Any enemy egressing from the town are likely to do so in an easterly direction utilizing the town to cover their movement into the tree line. The enemy is capable of delaying our advance into the city utilizing forward positions on the edges of the town using observers to call IDF on our advance and disrupt our formations and then engage us with direct fire weapons systems to slow our rate of march before withdrawing to more defendable positions. They are limited in their ability to delay by their wide distribution of small sized forces inability to mass combat power.


(3) (U) EMLCOA. I assess the EN’s mission is to block U.S. troop movement into MOUT Town IOT maintain their control and influence in the town and region. Currently, I believe the EN is establishing a defense in depth centered on the most fortified and defendable position in the city (Co Obj A).  I expect the enemy to have multiple positions established intended to delay our advance, first through the use of observers and IDF then with automatic weapons. Upon friendly forces gaining a foothold, positions of depth will withdraw and consolidate on squad sized positions, ultimately in support of the defense of Co Obj A. With withdrawal routes being cut by adjacent unit containment, I expect him to fight until destroyed in his final position. 




    b. (U) Friendly


         (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  Mission: O/O, 2/7 destroys the enemy in Centralian Highland Province IOT deny the CRF units the ability to control the cities.  Method: The enemy Center of Gravity is their interlocking sectors and mutually supported positions.  The enemy’s Critical Vulnerability is the disaggregated nature of their subordinate positions, lacking a significant mass of firepower at any one position.  We will exploit their CV by isolating single positions in order to mitigate their mutual support. We will then mass combat power on each position and systematically seize the town one position at a time.  End state: The CRF forces are eliminated and the civilians are able to move back into their homes and pursue normalcy of living.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) West.  Company C is currently occupying UTC in preparation for follow on missions.


            (b) (U) South.  Company D (+) is attacking and clearing 10 kilometers to the South along MSR Orlando.


            (c) (U) North.  Company E is currently seizing Combat Town.


            (d) (U) East.  Weapons Company screens to the east of Co B’s sector IOT prevent interference with company attacks and provide QRF if needed.


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Artillery.  None


            (b) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars.  81mm Mortar Platoon located IVO LZ Goshawk GC 783740 in GS of the Battalion POF B, C, Weapons, and D.


      (4) (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None