I. Situation


A. Enemy:  


COMPOSITION, DISPOSITION, AND STRENGTH – An enemy squad sized element is believed to have infiltrated the local populace of UTC and are planning to conduct harassing attacks against US forces. Four hours ago enemy forces were observed emplacing IEDs IVO UTC. They are armed with Soviet style small arms, to include Machine Guns, and IEDs.




CAPABILITIES AND LIMITATIONS – 
The enemy will not initiate sustained contact with US Forces. The enemy is using guerilla tactics to inflict casualties on security patrols in order to destabilize the town of UTC. The enemy will use IEDs to initiate ambushes and cover the withdraw of their forces. Once the enemy has gained control of the local populace and limited the effects of the security patrols of US forces they will mass to a platoon sized element and conduct a deliberate attack on UTC FOB IOT regain control of the area. 


EMLCOA:  I believe the enemy is currently identifying choke points and emplacing IEDs to interdict friendly patrols. If afforded the freedom of movement among local populace they will seek to destabilize security operations and hinder civic rebuilding actions. They will initiate contact with sniper fire, IEDs, and complex ambushes before immediately withdrawing to increase survivability. Upon gaining control of urban centers the enemy will mass to a platoon sized element and conduct a deliberate attack on UTC FOB IOT regain control of the region and reestablish legitimacy.


B. Friendly:


1. HIGHER 


a. Mission: O/O, BLT  2/7 clears the Battalion AO of irregular CRF forces IOT deny irregular CRF forces the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts IVO MOUT and UTC. 
. 


2. ADJACENT


             Fox Co., SE 1, O/O interdict CRF forces IVO TA-16 IOT deny enemy forces the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts in the AO. BPT assume the role of the ME. 
 
Echo Co., SE2, is the Battalion reserve located IVO Camp Barrett. BPT assume the role of the ME. 




3. SUPPORTING: None
Company 60mm mortar section is occupying MFP1 at UTC FOB. DOF 3200 mils. 
EOD is on stand-by for platoon patrols.  Platoon commanders must coordinate per platoon.
        
4. ATTACHMENTS/DETACHMENTS: Upon request, platoons conducting patrol will be provided an interpreter prior to your entrance into the town (UTC).
Effective immediately, 3rd platoon has 1 MMG Squad Attached