UNCLASSIFIED
Copy no. ___ of ___ copies
THE BASIC SCHOOL
                                                                        QUANTICO, VIRGINIA
                                                                        Range 11 Student Order


General Situation.  You are the 2nd Platoon Commander, Company F, 2/7. Our previous operations were a success and prevented the MRA from occupying key terrain in TA-16. Over the last week, our offensive actions have pushed the MRA further east towards Combat Town. The BN is attacking E with one company as the ME, one company as a SE, and one company in reserve in an effort to further degrade the enemy’s ability to reconstitute as a legitimate force in the region.


Orientation.  Company F is located in an AA IVO MOUT Town at TH 794 727. Our company AO boundaries are as follows: MCB-3 to our SW, MCB-6 to our SE, Tokyo Road to our W, Route 645 to our E, and the 74 Northing to our N. Note that the AO is boundary-inclusive. The terrain is Quantico-like with many fingers and draws that vary from 200 to 400 meters in elevation. Vegetation is primarily medium-growth deciduous forest with some coniferous representation. Key terrain within our AO includes several MSRs/ASRs, including Tokyo Road (N-S), MCB 5 (NW-SE), and Dirt-6 (SW-NE). The now friendly-controlled village of MOUT-town lies within our AO and will serve as our company AA. Numerous LZs are within our AO, including LZ Egret (TH 783 725), LZ Cardinal (TH 797 729), LZ Kiwi (TH 795 722), and LZ Buzzard (TH 806 727). Tactical control measures in our AO include the Assembly Area, PRP (TH 795 730), Co Aslt Pos (TH 799 736), BN Obj 1 (TH 825 745), BN Obj 2 (TH 803 736), and Co Obj A (TH 801 726). There are numerous intermittent streams throughout our AO, primarily running N-S in accordance with the draws that open to the northern end of the AO. Extensive trail networks criss-cross our AO; however, most of these trails run IVO of the LZs or parallel to the existing MSRs. The off-road terrain is unrestricted for foot-mobile infantry, but severely restricted for all vehicle traffic. Improved roads are unrestricted for vehicles. The unimproved roads within the AO are unrestricted for vehicles dependent upon weather. During heavy precipitation, the unimproved roads may become restricted to severely restricted. Visibility is dependent upon the season. In summer months, visibility is approximately 250m from the high ground and 25-50m inside of the draws. In winter months, visibility increases to approximately 400-500m from the high ground, and 50m within the draws. Illumination will be 25-30% in hours of darkness. Weather is as it is today.  


1. (U) Situation[a]


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  Within the past ten hours, reconnaissance patrols have confirmed the following EN positions: An MRA Company (-) is currently located IVO BN Obj 1 (TH 825 745), oriented W; an MRA platoon (-), at TH 803 736 (Bn Obj 2) oriented SW; and a MRA sqd (+), is located IVO Co Obj A (TH 801 726), oriented NW with a suspected LP/OP IVO (TH 798 729). All enemy units have US style small arms including M4/M16 rifles, M249 LMG, M240 MMG and were observed preparing defensive fighting positions.  In addition, enemy forces have 81 mm long-range IDF capability.


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The MRA is capable of conducting a deliberate defense utilizing LP/OP’s to effectively give them depth wherever they deem to be key terrain. The enemy is limited by their lack of logistics, which will hinder any long-term defense.  The MRA is capable of reinforcing with up to a Platoon from Montanya within one hour if given the opportunity to utilize the MSR networks but is limited by the ability to conduct effective command and control.  The enemy is capable of conducting small harassing attacks while patrolling from their defensive positions but is limited by their ability to mass firepower.  Due to the effectiveness of our offensive operations, the enemy has a limited ability to conduct a counterattack if pushed from their defensive positions.  The enemy is capable of withdrawing using the MSR network but is limited by the ability to conduct command and control. The MRA is capable of delaying our advance via indirect fires from their LP/OP but is limited by the inability to mass firepower.


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  The MRA Company(-) mission is to block north of MCB 6 IOT retain control of the MSR network.  The current positions reflect the MRA’s last holds in the TAOR. Holding the MSR network is critical to their ability to divert our forces and to delegitimize the Centralian government. The MRA has broken into their usual T/O in order to achieve some depth in their defense reflecting the importance they place on controlling the MSRs.  The enemy is currently fortifying their defensive positions and are likely at 25% security as they dig.  On contact, the enemy has an LP/OP that will serve as advance warning and alert the enemy to our actions. That LP/OP will use 81 mm mortars in order to call long range fires onto our formations and attempt to get us to culminate early or canalize us into their engagement area.  The enemy will then engage us with direct fire, starting with machineguns and then all other small arms, as we progress into their engagement area.  The enemy will withdraw after sustaining 25% casualties but will attempt to reorganize and mount a counterattack.        


    b. (U) Friendly


        (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  O/O, 2/7 destroys the EN MRA units IVO BN Objectives 1 and 2, and Co Obj A IOT deny the EN the use of the MSR network within the AO. The BN CO’s endstate: The EN in the AO destroyed or forced to withdraw, the MSRs open to friendly traffic, and friendly forces consolidated at key intersections IOT deny the EN’s use of the MSR network to resupply EN forces.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) West.  Company E (rein) (BN ME) is to the West. O/O Company E destroys EN MRA Co (-) on BN Obj 1 IOT deny EN the ability to resupply dispersed forces.


            (b) (U) South.  No friendly units are to the South.


            (c) (U) North.  The BN COC (Rear), Weapons Company, Company G (BN Res), and the BN logistics trains are to the North.


            (d) (U) East.  Delta Co LAR is currently conducting screening operations IOT protect our right flank along MCB 6 from LZ Turkey to the MCB 6E Gate to the South.


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars. BN 81mm mortar section is in GS of Companies F, E, and G. The mortar section is located IVO LZ Hummingbird (790        747). 




    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None.


2. (U) Mission.  O/O, Company F destroys enemy units IVO Bn Obj 2 and Co Obj A IOT prevent the enemy from using the MSR network within the AO.


3. (U) Execution


    a. (U) Commanders Intent.  


        (1) (U) Purpose. The purpose of this operation is to prevent the enemy from using the MSR network within the AO.


        (2) (U) Method. The enemy’s center of gravity is their prepared defensive positions. The enemy’s critical vulnerability is their fixed orientation. The Company will exploit this critical vulnerability by conducting a rapid assault utilizing combined arms.


        (3) (U) Endstate. My desired endstate is that the EN MRA forces are destroyed, the MSR network within our AO is under friendly control, and friendly forces are consolidated and prepared for follow on operations.


    b. (U) Concept of Operations


        (1) (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  Co F will conduct two independent and near-simultaneous attacks on Co Obj A and BN Obj 2. The distribution of forces is one platoon as the ME, one platoon as SE1, and one platoon as SE2. The direction of attack will be southeast. The ME will depart the AA and move to the Atk Pos in a company column, platoon column. O/O, the company will cross the LD and move to the PRP. At the PRP (TH 795 730), SE2 will be released. O/O, SE 2 will destroy the EN MRA sqd (+) on Co Obj A. The Co (-) will move from the PRP to the Co Aslt Pos (TH 799 736) in a company column (ME in front and SE1 in trace). Upon occupying the Co Aslt Pos, we will transition to a company (-) online oriented E with the ME on the right 1/2 and SE1 on the left 1/2. I will call for six minutes of suppression: 3min HE/Q from the BN 81mm mortars. As the fires lift, (O/O), the Co (-) will conduct a frontal attack, assaulting from W to E through BN Obj 2. We will consolidate oriented E, with the ME responsible for the right 1/2 of the objective and SE1 responsible for the left 1/2 of the objective. After destroying the EN MRA on Co Obj A, SE2 will consolidate oriented SE and await the signal to displace to the Company (-) on BN Obj 2.


        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.  


            (a) (U) Task.  [b] suppress the EN Plt (-) on BN Obj 2 and the EN Sqd (+) on Co Obj A


            (b) (U) Purpose.  IOT allow the company (-) to close within direct fire weapons range.


            (c) (U) Method.  


                1. (U) I have planned two targets, AA 2201 and AA 2202 which are located on BN Obj 2 and CO Obj A respectively. I will be the primary observer for AA 2201 (Bn Obj 2) and 2d platoon will be responsible to observe for AA 2202 (Co Obj A). For AA 2201, I will request F 2/11 to engage with three minutes of suppression, shell HE/fuze Quick. For AA 2202, 2d Platoon will have 3 minutes of suppression from 81 mm mortars, shell HE/fuze Quick.


            (d). (U) Effects.  The EN is effective suppressed on Co Obj A and Bn Obj 2 allowing maneuver elements to close on the EN.


    c. (U) Tasks


        (1) (U) 1st Platoon.  You are the Company ME. O/O, destroy the right 1/2 of the EN plt (-) IVO BN Obj 2 IOT deny the EN control and effective use of the MSR network within the AO. You have two MMG squads, 2 60 mm mortar squads and four Aslt Teams attached, effective immediately.


        (2) (U) 2nd Platoon. You are the Company SE2. O/O, destroy the EN sqd (+) IVO Co Obj A IOT prevent the EN sqd (+) from interfering in the Co ME atk on BN Obj 2.  You have 1 60 mm mortar squad attached and 1 MMG squad in DS of the platoon, effective immediately. EST SBF Pos IVO (TH 797 729) w/MMG Squad to set conditions for the start of the CO (-) attack. Plan 2 targets (3 min of 81mm suppression) in support of your attack. 


        (3) (U) 3rd Platoon. You are the Company SE1. O/O, destroy the left 1/2 of the EN plt (-) IVO BN Obj 2 IOT deny the EN control and effective use of the MSR network within the AO. You have two Aslt Teams attached, effective immediately. 


        (4) (U) Weapons Platoon.  Detach two Aslt Teams, 2 MMG squads, and 2 60 mm mortar squads to 1st Platoon, effective immediately. Detach 1 MMG squad to 2nd Platoon, they will be in GS effective immediately.  Detach 2 Aslt Teams to 3rd Platoon, effective immediately.


        (5) (U) 60mm Mortar Section.  Attach 2 mortar squads to 1st platoon to be used in their attack and attach 1 mortar squad to 2d platoon to be used in their respective attacks, effective immediately.


    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions


        (1) (U) Timeline  [c]
0700        Draw comm assets.
0710          Draw ammunition and pyro.
0715          Orders.
0900          Rehearsals.
1000          Final inspections.
1100          Move to PRP.
1200          Actions On Co Obj A


        (2) (U) Tactical Control Measures. Co Assembly Area: TH 794 727. PRP TH 795 730. Co Aslt Pos TH 799 736. Bn Obj 1 TH 825 745. Bn Obj 2 TH 803 736. Co Obj A TH 800 727. 


        (3) (U) Priority of Rehearsals


            (a) (U) Actions on objective.  
            (b) (U) Echelon of fires rehearsals.
            (c) (U) Actions on consolidation.
            (d) (U) Communications rehearsals.
            (e) (U) Actions on enemy contact.


        (4) (U) Lost Marine Plan. 


            (a) (U) AA to Aslt Pos. If a Marine becomes lost between the AA and the Aslt Pos, the lost Marine will orient themselves to the terrain and head west, using the location of the sun as a primary guiding feature and the contours of the terrain (decrease in elevation) as an alternate guiding feature. Once the Marine has eyes on MCB 5, he will turn left and move along the road (in the tree line) until he arrives at the AA location. He will execute the near/far recognition signal.


            (b) (U) Aslt Pos to Obj. If a Marine becomes lost between the Aslt Pos and the Obj, the lost Marine will return to the Aslt Pos and remain there for two hours. Once two hours have passed, the Marine will orient themselves to the terrain and head west, using the location of the sun as a primary guiding feature and the contours of the terrain (decrease in elevation) along the W-E trail as an alternate guiding feature. Once the Marine has eyes on MCB 5, he will move along the road (in the tree line) until he arrives at the AA location. He will execute the near/far recognition signal as per company SOP


            (c) (U) 2d Platoon, develop a LMP for your SOM.


        (5) (U) No Comm Plan.  If communications are lost at any point in the operation, we will immediately attempt to regain them. If we cannot reestablish communications, we will continue the operation and replace any indirect fires with a hasty SBF position. Once we have assaulted through the objective and consolidated, we will attempt to establish communication via other means (messenger) with BN.


        (6) (U) Weapons Test Fire.  Platoons are authorized to conduct a test fire of all MGs prior to crossing the LD. However, these test-fires        need to be requested through the Company Commander.


        (7) (U) MOPP Level. MOPP level is zero.  


4. (U) Administration and Logistics


    a. (U) Administration


        (1) (U) Enemy Prisoners of War.  All EPWs will be treated IAW the STRESS method. The Company 1stSgt is the POC for all EPWs detained during operations. Upon notification, the 1stSgt will coordinate extraction for all EPWs through the BN S-1 during the consolidation phase. On displacement, 2nd platoon brings any detained EPWs to BN Obj 2 and turn them over to the Company 1stSgt at that time.


        (2) (U) CASEVAC.  All casualties will be treated by the respective platoon corpsman. Upon consolidation, a Casualty Collection Point will be established at the six o’clock position. The Company GySgt will be the POC for all casualties; he will coordinate ground or air casevac to the BN BAS as required. Notify Company Commander over Co Tac Net in case of any urgent casevac requirements. 2nd Plt, you are responsible for establishing CCPs IAW your SOM and developing a CASEVAC Plan to be coordinated with higher.


    b. (U) Logistics


        (1) (U) Ammunition.  4,100 rds) of 5.56mm for all M16 service rifles and (3,250 rds)of SAW ammo.(800 rds) of 7.62. In addition, M203 grenade launchers will have (50) HEDP and (4) Illum 40mm rounds. Plan for (4) WSP, (4) GSC, (4) WSC, (4) Yellow Smoke, and (4) Green Smoke for your signal plan.


        (2) (U) Chow and Water.  All Marines will step off from the AA with (2) DOS chow. All Marines will step off from the AA with (2) full canteens and (1) full camelback.


        (3) (U) Resupply.  Coordinated with COC.


5. (U) Command and Signal


    a. (U) Signal


        (1) (U) Signal Plan


Event
	Primary
	Alternate
	Tertiary
	Platoon Release
	Radio
	Messenger
	Hand/Arm
	Change Formation
	Hand/Arm
	Messenger
	None
	Engagement
	RTR/ADDRAC
	Voice
	Hand/Arm
	Consolidate
	Conditions
	YSMK
	Radio
	Displace
	Conditions
	Radio
	Messenger
	*2d platoon develop additional signals IAW SOM
        (2) (U) Frequencies and Callsigns


Unit
	Callsign
	Frequency
	BN TAC 1
	Havoc
	CEOI
	BN Mortars
	Havoc Mortars
	CEOI
	Company Tac
	Godfather
	CEOI
	Company Mortars
	Godfather Mortars
	CEOI
	K, 3/11
	K6
	CEOI
	

        (3) (U) Challenge and Password.  Primary: Guinness/Monkey.  Alternate: Numbers adding to 9.  Running: Pontiac.


    b. (U) Command. 


        (1) (U) Location of Key Leaders.  The BN COC (fwd) is with the BN        ME. The BN COC (rear) is IVO LZ Turkey (TH 789 715). The Company First Sergeant and I will be with 1st Platoon. The Weapons Plt Commander and Company Gunnery Sergeant will be at the AA. The Company XO will be with 3rd Platoon.


        (2) (U) Succession of Command.  1st Plt Commander, 3rd Plt Commander, Weapons Plt Commander, 2nd Plt Commander.




ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT








UNCLASSIFIED
[a]If no text follows the header, do not put a period
[b]Multiple EFST’s will require
(a) (U) EFST 1


    1. (U) Task


    2. (U) Purpose….etc


(b) (U) EFST 2


    1. (U) Task…..etc
[c]This format was the cleanest if a timeline is included