O-SMEAC There are six main sections to the Five Paragraph Order.
They are as follows:
Orientation
I Situation
II Mission
III Execution
IV Administration & Logistics
V Command & Signal
This is what you will receive from higher that will set into
motion the Troop Leading Steps. Once you arrive at the
“C” in BAMCIS you will utilize this same format to
communicate your plan. There are many subparagraphs,
sections, and subsections that serve to structure the order
issue so that required information is included, delivered,
and issued in a clear manner. In the Student Handout
appendices, there are several templates that can be used
as a reference for various evolutions.
Orientation The orientation is a general overview which serves two
purposes. First, it is an opportunity for the commander to
orient subordinates to the medium by which the order is
issued, whether it is a terrain model, a whiteboard, a sand
table, etc. This allows appropriate subordinate
understanding on delivery of the order.
The second (and perhaps most important) purpose is to
define and describe the battle space being operated in.
Much of this information comes from the analysis of Terrain
and Weather gleaned from the commander’s Estimate of
the Situation (METT-TC).
To accomplish these two goals, included in the Orientation
are several critical elements of information such as current
location, direction of north, key terrain, tactical control
measures within the Area of Operations (AO), weather,
illumination, visibility, mobility, a local history of the
area/population, and enemy positions.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
12 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph I: Situation The first paragraph is the Situation which encompasses
three subparagraphs: Enemy Situation, Friendly Situation,
and Attachments/ Detachments. Each of these is a critical
component of information that must be disseminated to
subordinates.
 Enemy Situation. The Enemy situation is divided
into three sections: Enemy Composition, Disposition
and Strength; Enemy Capabilities/Limitations; and
Enemy’s Most Likely Course of Action.
o Composition, Disposition and Strength. The
composition disposition and strength section
answers the questions, “Who is the enemy?”,
“What do they bring to the fight?” and “What are
they doing?” These are facts about the enemy
given to us from higher who at this point has
already conducted a thorough estimate of the
situation. An acronym used to describe the
enemy forces is SALUTE which stands for Size,
Activity, Location, Unit, Time, and Equipment.
o Capabilities/Limitations. The
Capabilities/Limitations section answers the
question, “What can the enemy do and what
conditions are required for him to achieve these
actions?” An acronym used to describe the
enemy’s capabilities is DRAW-D, which stands
for the enemy’s capability and likelihood to:
Defend, Reinforce, Attack, Withdraw, and Delay.
The commander uses the facts listed in
composition, disposition and strength to
evaluate and estimate the enemy’s ability of
committing each action in DRAW-D.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
13 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph I: Situation
(Continued)
 Enemy Situation (Continued).
o Enemy’s Most Likely Course of Action
(EMLCOA). Following a thorough estimate of
the situation (METT-TC) the commander
determines the enemy’s most likely action.
Consider this the commander’s prediction of the
enemy Scheme of Maneuver. In general, the
EMLCOA should contain two pieces of
information:
1. Enemy’s mission.
2. A detailed description of what the enemy
is doing now.
3. A detailed description of what the enemy
will do on contact.
 Friendly Situation. The Friendly situation is divided
into three sections: Higher’s Mission/Intent, Adjacent
Units, and Supporting Units. Often, leaders refer to the
acronym HAS.
o Higher’s Mission/Intent. Commanders and
leaders must be aware of operations two-levels
higher to ensure their plan is “nested” with
higher. This means that a squad leader must be
apprised of the Company’s plan, a platoon
commander must be appraised of the Battalion’s
plan, and so on. Therefore, within an order, the
mission and intent of the leader one-level higher
than the commander issuing the order is
communicated to subordinates. At a minimum,
higher’s complete mission statement and
endstate is communicated.
o Adjacent Units. This information is included in
orders to provide subordinates with sufficient
information to understand the operational
environment around them in the geo-spatial
dynamic. At a minimum, adjacent unit
movement and effects of fires are important
considerations that must be disseminated to
subordinates. The seasoned commander will
communicate the mission of each adjacent unit
in addition to location. This allows a commander
and his subordinates to execute the mission of
an adjacent unit should he/she be called upon
from higher to do so.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
14 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph I: Situation
(Continued)
o Supporting Units. Information on units
supporting the operation is provided to inform all
subordinates of these assets. For example, any
fire support assets should be identified with their
locations, azimuths of fire, contact information,
employment (General Support (GS) or Direct
Support (DS)), and any priority of fires. In
addition, any available air assets should also be
listed (whether they are capable of CAS or
extraction assistance).
 Attachments/Detachments. Any attachments that a
higher command attached to your unit will be listed here.
This includes any of the following: Machinegun (MG)
squads, Assault teams, Forward Observer teams,
Sniper teams, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
personnel, military working dog (MWD) teams, civilian
journalists, hospital corpsmen, and any other personnel
not organic to your unit. These personnel must be
included in your administrative reports and provided for
(chow, water, etc). Attachments must receive
tasking in the Task portion of the Execution
Paragraph.
NOTE: At this point let’s relate back to your Tactical Planning I class. In
conducting your Estimate of the Situation (METT-TC) the information in
the Orientation and Situation paragraph from higher provides the basis
for your analysis of the Enemy (METT-TC), your analysis of Troops and
Fire Support Available (METT-TC), and your analysis of the Terrain and
Weather in the battle space. (METT-TC). Always remember, you must
analyze the information provided in higher’s order to complete your
own.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
15 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph II: Mission The second paragraph in the order is the mission
statement. A mission statement is composed of two parts,
a task and a purpose. When read from higher’s order this
is the mission one level above you. (Remember, an
effective commander is always relating two-levels higher to
ensure “nesting.”) The mission statement is normally
identical to the tasking statement issued to you by your
higher command. This mission statement must include the
answers to the “5 W’s”: Who, What, When, Where, and
Why. The “Why” ( al so kn o wn a s “ p u rp o se ”) is
the most important part of the statement because it informs
subordinates of the reason the task must be accomplished.
If the underlying premise for the task is understood,
subordinate unit leaders will be able to adjust missionbased actions at various points of friction should the unit
commander not be present. Thus, the unit will have a
better chance of overall mission accomplishment.
NOTE: Again, let’s relate back to your Tactical Planning class. At this point
from higher’s order you have some of the information needed to begin
conducting your analysis of the Mission (METT-TC).
Paragraph III:
Execution
The Execution paragraph is where the unit leader describes
and conveys his plan for accomplishing the unit mission. It
includes four main subparagraphs: Commander’s Intent,
Concept of Operations, Tasks, and Coordinating
Instructions.
 Commander’s Intent. This subparagraph is described
in terms of three components: the Purpose of the
operation, Method of exploitation and desired Endstate.
Remember, as per Warfighting, “Understanding the
intent of our commander allows us to exercise initiative
in harmony with the commander’s desires….A clear
expression and understanding of intent is essential to
unity of effort.” (MCDP 1)
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
16 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph III:
Execution (Continued)
 Commander’s Intent (Continued)
o Purpose. Statement of the purpose for conducting
the operation. This should include the “In order to”
portion of the mission statement i.e. the “why”. It is
re-communicated to ensure subordinates
comprehension.
o Method. Statement of the commander’s overarching plan for exploitation of the enemy’s
critical vulnerability and mission success. The
method should include:
 Enemy Center of Gravity. Our Warfighting
doctrine is based in the concept of maneuver
warfare, in which we avoid surfaces and mass
our firepower at the enemy vulnerability. To do
this, the commander, after having completed
their estimate of the situation (METT-TC) and
prediction of the enemy’s scheme of maneuver
(EMLCOA), will determine what provides gravity
to the enemy. This is communicated in the
order to ensure subordinate avoidance and
allow subordinates to conduct their own
analysis of the enemy. The unit commander
should i d e n ti fy t h e en e my’s ke y we a
kn e ss that corresponds to the enemy’s mo
st l i kel y co ur se of action as described in
Paragraph I, subparagraph A, section 1
(Enemy Forces).
 Enemy Critical Vulnerability. The converse of
the enemy’s center of gravity is where we seek to
mass our force. The critical vulnerability is the gap
that when struck renders the enemy’s center of
gravity ineffective, without having to strike the center
of gravity directly. As with t h e e n e my’s center of
gravity, the commander should identify the e n e
my’s ke y we a kn e ss as befitting the enemy’s
most likely course of action as described in
Paragraph I, subparagraph A, section 1 (Enemy
Forces).
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
17 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
 Commander’s Intent (Continued)
Paragraph III:
Execution (Continued)
 Exploitation plan. Is the identified plan of how
the enemy’s critical vulnerability will be
exploited by the unit’s scheme of maneuver.
For example: if the enemy’s key gap is an
exposed flank, then an exploitation plan may be
to mass firepower on the enemy’s flank.
o Endstate. The commander will describe what he
envisions after the dust of the battle has settled.
This Endstate is relative to enemy units, friendly
units, and terrain. Ensuring that the desired
endstate is pushed to all subordinates provides for
flexibility on the battlefield, for if all subordinates
clearly understand the desired endstate, they are
capable of independently driving that goal even if
the original proposed plan goes awry.
 Concept of Operations. The unit commander will
explain his detailed plan in the Concept of Operations.
The two components within this subparagraph are the
Scheme of Maneuver and the Fire Support Plan.
Offensive and defensive schemes of maneuver each
have separate and specific essential elements that must
be included in the unit commander’s order.
Communication of these elements should be
anonymous, sequential and thorough.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
18 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph III:
Execution (Continued)
o (Offensive) Scheme of Maneuver. This section
describes the plan by which the unit commander
has decided he will exploit the enemy’s critical
vulnerability. The plan must be anonymous so
as not to create the potential for subordinate
units to isolate their attention to solely their role.
The plan must be sequential so as to create a
chronological structure to the operation which
translates into clarity among subordinates and
order recipients. The plan must be thorough and
include all required information but not belabor
details. When communicating, unit commanders
are encouraged to “walk the dog” during the
scheme of maneuver, which entails physically
manipulating some graphic along a physical
representation of the terrain through the various
tactical control measures. There are five
essential elements of the offensive scheme of
maneuver which include: Distribution of
Forces, Form of Maneuver, Direction of
Attack, TCMs, and Consolidation.
 Distribution of Forces. The commander
should specify the breakdown of his forces.
This consists of identifying a Main Effort
(where the commander looks to mass his
combat power or “weight”) and several
Supporting Efforts (where combat power is
economized). This must be specified for all
subordinates.
 Form of Maneuver. The commander must
specify the form of maneuver to be
incorporated in the operation. The forms of
maneuver are: frontal attack, flanking attack,
envelopment, turning movement, infiltration,
and penetration. (as per MCDP 1-0: 7-16)
While at TBS, you will focus on using either the
frontal or flanking attack.
 Direction of Attack. The unit commander
should specify the direction of attack. This
direction indicates the general direction from
the Assembly Area (AA) to the Objective.
Direction of attack is the direction of movement
upon crossing the line of departure (LD).
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
19 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph III:
Execution (Continued)
 Concept of Operations (Continued)
o Offensive Scheme of Maneuver (Continued).
 TCMs. The commander must brief
sequentially all the tactical control measures
used within the operation and the required
actions at each. These are the geographic
locations that exist for the unit commander to
“assign responsibility, coordinate fire and
maneuver, and control operations.” Examples
include the Assembly Area (AA), the Attack
Position, the Line of Departure (LD), a Release
Point (RP), the Assault Position, and the
Objective. They should be identified to all
subordinates during the order.
 Consolidation. The unit commander should
specify his plan for actions upon consolidation.
This can be distributed into assignments by
utilizing the clock method (10-2 o’clock, 2-6, 6-
10) to assign areas of responsibilities to
subordinate units. This should also include
information pertaining to security, resupply,
and casualty evacuation among other
concerns.
Paragraph III:
Execution (Continued)
 Tasks. The commander will task his subordinate units
in this subparagraph. Subordinate leaders use their
task from higher as the primary piece of their mission
analysis when they are conducting their Estimate of the
Situation. (METT-TC) Therefore, a tasking statement is
required to include all the same criteria as for a mission
statement, including the answers to the “5 W’s”: Who,
What, When, Where, and Why. “Who” refers to the
subordinate unit designated to accomplish the task
assigned.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
20 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph III:
Execution (Continued)
 Tasks (Continued). For all offensive (and defensive)
operations, the “what” refers to the assigned tactical
task. The astute commander uses appropriate tactical
tasks (listed in MCDP 1-0 and the Ops Terms and
Graphics Student Handout) to ensure subordinate
comprehension of what the commander wants to occur.
Further, use of non-tactical tasks invites interpretation
and ambiguity that increases internal friction. (Note: If
the operation is not offensive or defensive in nature, the
subordinate units are not required to receive tactical
tasks. An example of this would be convoy operations.)
“When” refers to the time the assigned task is required
to occur. “Where” refers to the geographic location at
which the effects of the tactical task are required. “Why”
is identified as the most important because it informs
subordinates of the reason the task must be
accomplished. If the underlying premise for the task is
understood, there is a greater chance that the mission
will be successfully accomplished. The purpose should
be related to the higher unit’s endstate as briefed earlier.
During communication of the order, the commander will
again “walk the dog”, but with graphics that accurately
depict the designated subordinate units.
 Coordinating Instructions. Any instructions that are
not included in tasks and that pertain to two or more
subordinate units are included in this subparagraph.
The unit commander will identify many general details
that are imperative for mission success. Some details
include a timeline, priority of rehearsals, lost Marine plan
(by phase), a no-communications plan, establishment of
priorities of work, the designation of a base unit, all
TCMs, the Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP)
level, go/no-go criteria, abort criteria, and immediate
action (IA) drills.
NOTE: Relating back to your Tactical Planning class, at this point, having been
given higher’s Commander’s Intent, Scheme of Maneuver, Fire Support
Plan, Tasking Statements to subordinates (you), and Coordinating
Instructions to include the timeline, you have additional information to
continue your analysis of the Mission (METT-TC), Troops and Fire
Support Available (METT-TC), and Time (METT-TC). Always
remember, you must analyze the information provided in higher’s
order to complete your own.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
21 Basic Officer Course
Order Format (Continued)
Paragraph IV:
Administration and
Logistics (Continued)
In this paragraph, the unit commander identifies the
administrative and logistical information necessary for the
operation to be successful. There are two subparagraphs
in Paragraph IV: Administration and Logistics.
 Administration. The unit commander will explain
his plan for all administrative issues in this
subparagraph. He will specify locations and points
of contact for all wounded in action (WIA), killed in
action (KIA), and Enemy prisoners of war (EPWs)
during the operation. This includes a detailed
casualty evacuation (CASEVAC) plan to move the
casualty to the next higher echelon of care.
 Logistics. In this subparagraph, the unit
commander presents his plan for all logistics issues.
In addition, he identifies the preparations for
receiving required equipment for the operation.
Resupply issues are also briefed, such as
time/location and priority of units.
B2B0287 Combat Orders Foundations
22 Basic Officer Course
Paragraph V:
Command and Signal
This paragraph concentrates on the unit commander’s plan
for command and control during the operation. There are
two subparagraphs in this section: Signal and Command.
 Signal. The Signal subparagraph contains crucial
communication-related information such as the
established primary/alternate Challenge and
Password, primary/alternate/tertiary radio
frequencies to be used during the operation, and any
other signals (pyro, smoke) that the unit commander
has designated to include in his Scheme of
Maneuver. Signals must be Original, Appropriate and
Redundant in accordance to what is available and
what is the desired effect. The location of a copy of
the Communications/ Electronic Operational
Instructions (CEOI) should also be briefed.
 Command. Within this subparagraph, there are two
sections: Location of Key Personnel and Succession
of Command.
- Location of Key Personnel. The unit
commander shall specify the location of each key
individual throughout the entire operation. If the
location of various key personnel is to change due to
the determined Scheme of Maneuver, the unit
commander shall identify this and disseminate the
information to the subordinate units.
- Succession of Command. The unit
commander shall determine the succession of
command among his subordinate unit leaders. This
should be somewhat dependent upon the Scheme of
Maneuver.