UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
  
        MOUT STEX Order

Copy no. ___ of ___ copies
BATTALION 2/7
13TH MEU
CENTRALIA
281200ZOCT20


OPERATIONS ORDER 002-20 (OPERATION MOUT FEX) (U)


(U) REFERENCES: 13TH MARINE EXPEDITIONARY UNIT OPERATION ORDER 002-20


(U) TIME ZONE: Zulu 


(U) TASK ORGANIZATION. Annex A.


1. Situation


   1. General.  We are currently located at the company assembly area (LZ Turkey 789 715). Over the past few months the Company has been conducting continuous combat operations against the CRF forces in the country of Centralia. During recent diplomatic negotiations, the country of Montanya has agreed to cease providing military support to the CRF and close its borders and stop providing refuge for withdrawing Centralian Forces. With this loss of support, the Centralians have decided to withdraw and commit the remainder of their conventional forces into key urban areas in an attempt to gain popular support and maintain their control and influence in the region. Our most recent intelligence indicates the CRF are infiltrating the capital city of Hogan in buddy pair or fire team sized elements in order to disrupt political stability in Centralia. During Phase I of Operation MOUT FEX, we destroyed many of these smaller elements in their safe houses through the use of widely distributed squad size attacks.  However, with the support of the local populace the total strength of the CRF insurgency has continued to grow in the city center of MOUT Town. We will now begin PHASE II of Operation MOUT FEX, where we will maneuver with platoon size elements against the entrenched CRF in the city center of MOUT Town.


   2. Battlespace.


      1. Area of Interest.  OMMITED


      2. Area of Operations.  Our company sector is a small suburb of Combat Town, called MOUT Town, IVO 18S TH 794 727 (Bn Obj 1) and is bordered by LZ Kiwi to the south and MCB 5 to the northeast. The suburb has an estimated population of 1,000 people, but most of the civilians fled when the CRF moved in by force. Several of the buildings around the edges of the suburb have been reduced to rubble. To the north is the core periphery and city center of MOUT Town. Access to the city center through our company sector can only be achieved by transiting along MSR Tampa, which runs through our company sector from north to southwest. A platoon boundary between 3rd (West) and 2nd platoon (East) also runs along MSR Tampa. Phase Line (PL) Apple is the company LOA. Lastly, there is a working sewer system that HUMINT has confirmed runs between some of the buildings in the town.


   3. Enemy Forces


      3. Composition, Disposition, Strength.  Intelligence collection assets have identified approximately a platoon reinforced CRF element IVO the northern portion of our company sector 18S TH 794 727. Intelligence and satellite imagery suggests CRF insurgents have moved into the area and have begun to fortify defensive positions along MSR Tampa which appear to be blocking south. We suspect they are blocking for the left (east) flank of a CRF company (-) sized force located north of our sector. Any follow on attack on this company of CRF will have to transit our sector first.  The CRF are wearing desert fatigues and carrying small caliber weapons like M4’s and M16’s. Their automatic weapons capabilities are most likely limited to M240’s and M249’s. Indirect capabilities include 60 and 81mm mortars and limited 155mm artillery. 


      4. Capabilities and Limitations.  The platoon in our AO has the ability to defend from their established positions until those positions become untenable due to overwhelming fires or taking casualties.  They retain the ability to be reinforced; however, it is estimated that it will take at least one hour based on the proximity of CRF company (-) and the coordination required.  They have the ability to attack our forces within roughly 1km of MOUT Town.  They have demonstrated the ability to use anything from a FT to a full platoon to conduct attacks against our forces.  They also have the ability to attack by fire as we close on the town and enter their developed engagement areas.  Intelligence and satellite imagery both point to this element being part of a larger company (-) sized CRF element, as such they will have a planned withdrawal route that will be covered by their IDF assets and allow them to link up with the bulk of their force as they withdraw to the east.  The enemy in MOUT Town also has the ability to delay us prior to and after our clearance of MOUT Town with the IDF assets and their developed engagement areas.  They also have the ability to delay as wen clear through the town as they can bound back ahead of our lead elements to delay us in every building that we encounter in MOUT Town.  


      5. Enemy’s Most Likely Course of Action. The CRF mission is to defeat coalition forces in Centralia. Currently the CRF platoon is fortifying their defensive positions and trying to gain depth in their defense with patrols and LP/OP’s.  On contact the CRF platoon will attempt to delay our advance in three parts.  Prior to our entrance into MOUT Town they will use patrols to locate us and conduct harassing attacks and attempt to call for fire on our positions.  Once we are inside the city they will bound back through their positions forcing us to fight through each building in the city which will slow our advance.  Lastly as we close on the last buildings in MOUT Town they will again use direct and indirect fires to cover their withdrawal to the north once their positions become untenable.


   4. Friendly Forces


      6. Higher Mission. O/O, 2/7 destroys the enemy IVO MOUT Town IOT deny the CRF units the ability to control the city.  


      7. Higher Commander’s Intent


         1. Purpose. Support 13th MEU efforts to protect the country of Centralia from CRF aggression and to deny the dissident force's ability to conduct offensive operations in MOUT Town.


         2. Method.  The enemy Center of Gravity is their interlocking sectors and mutually supported positions.  The enemy’s Critical Vulnerability is the disaggregated nature of their subordinate positions, lacking a significant mass of firepower at any one position.  We will exploit their CV by isolating single positions in order to mitigate their mutual support. We will then mass combat power on each position and systematically seize the town one position at a time.  


         3. End State.  The enemy threat and ability to affect the political affairs of MOUT Town is eliminated and US forces are positioned to repel CRF attacks from the north attempting to retake the city, and infrastructure is retained intact as able to allow for ease of transfer back to the local government.


      8. Adjacent. 


         4. Company G(+).  ME. Conduct a forward passage of lines through Company E’s sector MOUT Town and destroys the CRF Company (-)(+) IVO of MOUT Town IOT prevent the CRF from interfering in the political affairs of MOUT Town. SE2 


         5. Company F.  Battalion reserve.  


         6. Weapons Co (-).  Screen to the east of Company E during its assault north. Upon clearance of Combat Town, Weapons Co (-) screens to the east of G and F Companies IOT prevent CRF reinforcements from interfering w/ the ME attack on the city center of MOUT Town.         
      9. Supporting: 81mm Mortar Platoon located IVO LZ Goshawk 18S TH 783 740 is in GS of the Battalion POF G, E, W (-), F.  (1) Engineer Section with mechanical breaching capabilities and SMAWs. 


   5. Civilian Populace.  UAS and satellite imagery identifies approximately 17 buildings making up this town with only one other town near-by, 1500m West.  The population MOUT Town are comparatively low with an estimation that only half the buildings are actually occupied, in part due to the insurgency. A majority of the civilians have left in the wake of the increasing CRF presence. This area has never interacted with uniformed U.S forces before and our presence could come as a shock or be received with curiosity.  Either way, we know the majority of the population is inclined to side with U.S. interests.  Most are not happy about the insurgent activity.  Local intelligence assets have confirmed at least one cell of enemy sympathizers, backed by the CRF, residing within the town.  Best estimates put the number of enemies at a squad minus.  These sympathizers are known to utilize IEDs and Sniper fire. The predominant language is Spanish with few being able to speak English. The people tend to be passionate, regardless of whether their attitude is friendly or hostile. If the men feel slighted, they will become uncooperative to the point of defiance, regardless of whether they are armed or not. The women are culturally hospitable and welcoming, but this typically has no correlation to romantic interest. The education level is not particularly high. Predominant religion is Christianity. There is an established local authority, however their influence is not seen as particularly effective.  


5. Attachments and Detachments.  (1) Engineer Section with mechanical breaching capabilities and SMAWs to prep entry to buildings. 


2. Mission.  NLT 1300, Co E destroys the CRF platoon located at BN Obj 1 (Combat Town) IOT allow G and F Companies to conduct forward passage of lines into MOUT Town and destroy the CRF Company (-) located there. BPT isolate to the north and east IOT prevent CRF reinforcements from interfering w/ the ME attack on MOUT Town’s city center. 


3. Execution


   6. Commander’s Intent  


      10. Purpose.  To allow G and F Companies to conduct forward passage of lines into MOUT Town and destroy the CRF Company (-)(+) located there. 


      11. Method.  The enemy's COG is their prepared defensive positions, specifically the engagement areas S and W along MSR Tampa. Their CV is their inability to be rapidly reinforced. I intend to exploit this by rapidly conducting sequential platoon attacks. We will first seize the buildings to the E of MSR Tampa to eliminate the western engagement area.  We will then seize all buildings to the W of MSR Tampa IOT seize all of MOUT Town.  


      12. End State.  Destruction of the CRF platoon and their ability to interfere with the ME attack on Combat  Town while still preserving the local infrastructure for follow on operations and handover back to the civilian populace. 


   7. Concept of Operations 


      13. Scheme of Maneuver.  DOA is north. The company will conduct a frontal attack with one Plt (+) as Security Unit, one Plt (+) as the Support Unit, and one Plt (+) as the Assault Unit. This will be a three-stage operation. All Units BPT TO ROTATE and fill the roles of Security, Support, and Assault. 


         7. Stage A: Seizure of Co Obj A.  
-Begins with: the Security Unit isolating Obj B West of the MSR, which sets conditions for the Assault Unit to Seize Co Obj A. 
-Ends With: Seizure of Co Obj A, the Assault Unit will immediately transition Security Unit to provide isolation of Co Obj B.  
-Critical Events: 
                             Assault Unit Clears from PL Cranberry to PL Banana. 
                             Assault Unit Seizes Co Obj A. 
                             Support Unit Follows in Support
-Conditions Set: Isolate Co Obj B IOT allow Stage B Assault Unit to Seize Co Obj B




         8. Stage B: Seizure of Co Obj B.  
-Begins with: Security Unit isolating Co Obj B from Co Obj A which sets conditions for the Assault Unit to Seize Co Obj B. 
-Ends With: Seizure of Co Obj B, Assault will immediately transition to Security to providing isolation on Co Obj B.   
-Critical Events: Assault Unit Clears from Phase Line Banana to Phase Line Apple. 
                             Assault Unit Seizes Co Obj B 
                             Support Unit Follows in Support 
-Conditions Set: Isolate Co Obj C IOT allow Stage C Assault to Seize Co Obj C. 


         9. Stage C: Seizure of Co Obj C. 
-Begins with: Security Unit isolating Co Obj C, which sets conditions for the Assault Unit to Seize Co Obj C.  
- Ends with: Co Obj C Seized by the Assault Unit, all units will transition to security in order to allow for Bn Forward Passage of Line.  
-Critical Events: 
                             Assault Unit Clears from Phase Line Banana to Co Obj C
                             Assault Unit Seizes Company Obj C
                             Assault, Support, and Security Consolidate N Side of MOUT Town in 360 defensive
                             perimeter.   
                             Assault oriented to the N, Support to the E/SE, and Security to the W/SW. 
-Conditions Set:  Conduct Bn Forward Passage of Lines. 


   8. Fire Support Plan.  The following EFST apply to all three phases of operations.


      14. Task: Limit the CRF’s ability to engage Co E with direct-fire weapons. 

      15. Purpose: IOT allow Co E secure two platoon footholds in MOUT Town.


   16. Method: Each platoon is allocated two targets.  POF 3, 2, 1 for both 81mm mortars and 60mm mortars. 


   17. Effects: CRF elements are suppressed.


   9. Tasks 


   18. Stage A: Seizure of Co Obj A. 


   10. 3rd Platoon. Security Unit. O/O isolate west of MSR Tampa IOT deny the enemy’s ability to affect assault on Co Obj A. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. BPT to rotate to the Assault Unit. 


   11. 1st Platoon. Support Unit. Upon effective isolation, follow and support of the Assault Unit IOT allow 2nd Plt to seize Co Obj A. You have 1 MMG squads and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately BPT to remain as the Support Unit.


   12. 2nd Platoon.  Assault Unit. Upon effective isolation to the West of MSR Tampa by the Security Unit, Seize Co Obj A IOT set conditions for 3rd Plt seizure of Co Obj B. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. BPT to rotate to the Security Unit.


   19. Stage B: Seizure of Co Obj B.


   13. 2nd Platoon. Security Unit. Upon seizure of Co Obj A, Isolate Co Obj B IOT allow 3rd Plt to seize Co Obj B. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. BPT Rotate to the Support Unit.


   14. 1st Platoon. Support Unit. Upon effective isolation, follow and support of the Assault Unit IOT allow 3rd Plt to seize Co Obj B. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. BPT rotate to the Assault Unit.


   15. 3rd Platoon. Assault Unit. Upon effective isolation from 2nd Plt, Seize Co Obj B IOT set conditions for 1st Plt to seize Co Obj C. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. BPT to rotate to the Security Unit.


   20. Stage C: Seizure of Obj C. 


   16. 3rd Platoon. Security Unit. Upon seizure of Co Obj B, isolate Co Obj C IOT allow the Assault Unit to Seize Co Obj C. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. BPT to conduct a Hasty Urban Defense upon seizure of Co Obj C, orient to the W/SW.


   17. 2nd Platoon. Support Unit. Upon 3rd Plt isolating Co Obj C, follow and support the Assault Unit IOT allow 1st Plt to seize Co Obj C. BPT to suppress Co Obj C IOT allow the Assault Unit to seize Co Obj C. You have 1 MMG squad and 1 Breach team attached, effective immediately. You will remain Support and conduct a Hasty Urban Defense upon seizure of Co Obj C, orient to the E/SE.


   18. 1st Platoon. Assault Unit: Upon 3rd Plt isolating Co Obj C, seize Co Obj C IOT gain control of MOUT town and to prevent CRF reinforcements from interfering with the Bn attack on Combat Town. This will set conditions for the Bn Forward Passage of Lines. BPT to conduct a hasty Urban Defense oriented to the N of MOUT Town. 


   21. Weapons Platoon.  Effective immediately, until company consolidates in MOUT Town, detach (1) MMG Squad and (1) Breach Team (The engineers attached to the Company) to 2nd Platoon and (1) MMG Squads and (1) Breach Teams to 3rd Platoon, and (1) MMG Squad and (1) Breach Team to 1st Platoon. 


   22. 60mm Mortar Section. Establish a firing position IVO LZ Pelican 18S TH 808 729. You are in GS of the Co with POF to 3rd Plt, 2nd Plt, and 1st Plt.  Firecap NLT 1330.


   10. Coordinating Instructions


   23. TCM. ORP 793726, PL Apple, PL Banana, PL Cranberry, Bn Obj 1 (area shown on imagery), Co Obj A (two large buildings in the center of the Co’s zone), Co Obj B (group of 2 buildings W of MSR Tampa and N of PL Banana), and Co Obj C (N of Phase Line Apple Two story building NE side of MOUT Town, West Side of MSR Tampa) see imagery


   24. MOPP Level. MOPP Ready


   25. Time line. Platoon commanders develop their own timeline.  The Company will LD NLT 1300.


   4. Administration and Logistics


   11. Admin


   26. CASEVAC Plan. Platoon Commanders develop your own CASEVAC plan. Platoon Sergeant needs to provide a safe route to bring in CASEVAC vehicle. After consolidation, we will bring the CASEVAC vehicle up MSR Tampa to the 6 O’clock of the Company position. 


   27. EPW Plan. Platoon Commander establishes EPW Collection Point in respective sector. Contact Company 1st Sgt with number, location, and route to coordinate pick up. Company EPW collection point located at LZ Turkey. Utilize 5-S's and a T.


   12. Logistics


   28. Chow, water, ammunition drawn IAW Platoon Commander Timeline. 


   29. Additional requests for equipment or supplies will be submitted through the Company GySgt.


   30. Each platoon has 16 Grn Smk, 16 Ylo Smk, 6 GSC, 2 RSC, 6 WSC, and 6 rockets.

      5. Command and Signal


      13. Signal


      31. Signal Plan. See Company CEOI and Communications Architecture. Platoon Commander determines signals for platoon attacks. (Make use of available pyro for Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary signals).


      32. No Comm Plan. TBD by Platoon Commander.
  

      14. Command


      33. Company Commander will be located with the ME. XO will follow in trace of SE1.
  
  

      34. Company 1stSgt and Company GySgt will be located in the AA.


      35. Succession of Command: XO, 2nd Plt , 3rd Plt, 1st Plt.