UNCLASSIFIED
Copy no. ___ of ___ copies
THE BASIC SCHOOL
                                                                        QUANTICO, VIRGINIA
                                                                        Platoon (+) Day 1 Attack 1
A Group


General Situation.  You are the _____ Platoon Commander, Company E (+), BLT 2/7.  Company E (+) will insert as the lead element of the battalion, followed immediately by additional indirect fire support assets with a security element.  Battalion will insert follow on forces once Co G has destroyed the enemy IVO the logistical hub.
Orientation.  We are currently on board the USS Bataan position off of the Southwest coast of Upshur Island.  The BLT AO boundaries are as follows:
-      North- 79 Northing
-      East- N Hangman Tree Road
-      South- 75 Northing
-      West- SR 609


Terrain/Vegetation: Terrain consists of rolling hills, and intermittent streams in low lying areas. There is mostly thin vegetation in pockets of the region, but is vastly covered with dense vegetation.  During the summer months, vegetation significantly reduces visibility from 200 – 300 meters on high ground to100 – 200 meters in low ground and around streams. During the winter, observation can reach 400 – 500 meters in high ground, due to the lack of foliage.  Hills vary in elevation up to 30 meters, which can canalize and result in slow movement. The AO has many streams and creeks, all of which are fordable on foot, but will slow movement significantly.


Major Roads:  There are several major roads in the AO: SR 609 and N Hangman Tree Road.  These roads are unrestricted to vehicular traffic.  There is also 16E Tank Trail running from East to West and is restricted to vehicular traffic. As a result of our shaping fires, which had devastating effects against MRA convoys, the MRA minimizes its use along these roads to singular or double transport vehicles capable of carrying a medium machine gun. The traffic-ability of the trails on the map are currently unknown.


The following LZ’s are capable to support air CASEVAC’s and air resupply (All other LZ’s are considered unsupportable for air CASEVAC and air resupply):
-      LZ Vulture (TH 8285 7790)
-      LZ Snipe (TH 8295 7645)
-      LZ Canary (TH 8450 7695)
-      LZ Tern (TH 8102 7594)
-      LZ Drake (TH 8051 7660)
-      LZ Duck (TH 8208 7450)
-      LZ Pheasant (TH 8200 7780)
-      LZ Crane (TH 8260 7555)
-      DZ Redwing (TH 8000 7620)


1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  During the past 24 hours, collection assets have reported that the MRA Company is establishing Area Defense with Platoon Battle Positions in order to prevent U.S. Forces from disrupting their offensive operations on Upshur Island. Our specific Company Objectives are as follows: Co Obj A (IVO TH 830 767), Co Obj B (IVO TH 844 769), and Co Obj C (IVO TH 830 778).  Imagery has shown the MRA has small command and control sites IVO of all Company Objectives. The S-2 has determined through reports from inserted scout sniper teams that the MRA are establishing a defense in depth by conducting patrols and ambushes along avenues of approach forward of the platoon battle positions. The MRA units were seen wearing various camouflage uniforms, and appear armed with U.S. small arms to include M4/M16 rifles, M240 medium machine guns and medium (81mm) mortars. The S-2 assesses that the MRA have reliable communications assets and can call for indirect fires. The MRA also appear to have night vision and thermal capabilities.  


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.             


            (a) (U) Defend: The MRA is capable of conducting up to a company sized sector defense through coordinated individual platoon battle positions.  They are capable of conducting a defense in depth through emplacing LP/OPs, conducting patrols and integrating fires into their engagement area. They are limited in their ability to move freely throughout the AO because they commit all of their forces to establishing defensive positions rather than dedicating units to a reserve. 


            (b) (U) Reinforce: The MRA is capable of reinforcing their defensive positions internally with patrolling MRA squads within 30 minutes.  They are limited in their ability to reinforce, by their lack of ability to receive timely and accurate information which indicate approaching forces equal or outnumber their established defensive positions. 


            (c) (U) Attack:  The MRA are capable of conducting harassing attacks through establishing fire team to squad size ambush positions along trails and roads. The MRA is limited in their ability to attack as a result of committing their forces to static defensive battle positions.


            (d) (U) Withdraw: The MRA is capable of withdrawing along roads and trails as a result of their mobile patrols.  They are limited in their ability to withdraw quickly while carrying their wounded and killed.  They are limited by the speed of which they can withdraw because they have minimal vehicle assets. 


            (e) (U) Delay: The MRA is capable of delaying our forces with indirect fires, patrolling operations and established engagement areas.  The enemy is capable of using its patrols and LP/OPs to identify our position in order to call for fire or establish ambush positions. They are limited by their poor communication ability between their units and their limited intelligence assets.


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  The MRA company’s mission is to protect the command and control sites located IVO LZs Vulture, Snipe, and Canary IOT allow offensive operations in our AO.  Currently, the company is establishing Platoon Battle Positions Southwest of LZ Vulture, North of LZ Snipe, and West of LZ Canary. They will likely establish depth by conducting squad sized ambush patrols along likely avenues of approach and security patrols in order to provide early warning of the presence of US forces.  They will utilize LP/OP positions forward of their defensive positions in an effort to extend their observation.  On contact, the MRA patrols will attempt to disrupt our movement to provide the MRA forces additional time to prepare their defensive positions.  Once their planned withdrawal routes are threatened, the MRA squads will withdraw via the most direct route and link up with their established defensive positions in their sector.  The MRA platoon battle positions will defend in depth, utilizing indirect fires observed by the LP/OP or patrolling force, once our forces are identified.  Once our forces enter their engagement area, they will engage with their direct fire weapons attempting to mass their fires on our maneuver element.  The defensive positions will not withdraw in force once in contact due to the importance of the command and control sites and their inability to return to their native country of Montanya.


    b. (U) Friendly


        (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  


1. Mission. ME, NLT 1400, 2/7 destroys the MRA command and control sites in order to prevent MRA forces from conducting coordinated offensive operations in our AO.


2. Commander’s Intent:  All MRA forward and main battle positions destroyed. MRA prevented from conducting coordinated offensive operations and returning to the Island of Quantico; thereby preventing the MRA from disrupting Centralian Government operations.  Friendly forces are in control of LZ Vulture, LZ Canary, and LZ Snipe and prepared to receive follow on forces.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) Fox Co.  NLT 0930, secure LZ Crane IOT allow Bn 81mm Mortar platoon to occupy a mortar firing position.  
        (3) (U) Supporting.  


            (a) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars. Wpns Co, 81mm Mortar Platoon is in DS of Company E and will land IVO LZ Crane.  POF are to ME, SE1, SE2, SE3.


            (b). (U) Attachments/Detachments. None.  


2. (U) Mission.  Battalion ME.  NLT 1400 destroy the MRA Platoon BPs IVO LZ Snipe, LZ Canary and LZ Vulture IOT allow the company to stage for follow-on operations in support of BLT-2/7.


3. (U) Execution


    a. (U) Commanders Intent.  


        (1) (U) Purpose. The purpose of this operation is to allow the company to stage for follow-on operations in support of BLT-2/7.


        (2) (U) Method. The enemy’s center of gravity is their defense in depth with LP/OPs and squad sized units forward of the defensive battle positions. His critical vulnerability is his inability to mutually support all positions and conduct lateral communication. We will exploit this critical vulnerability by conducting simultaneous attacks on enemy platoon positions.


        (3) (U) Endstate. MRA defensive positions are destroyed and are prevented from conducting resupply operations.  Friendly forces are prepared to conduct follow on offensive operations.


    b. (U) Concept of Operations


1. (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  Direction of Attack will be Counter-Clockwise for the Company. We will have (1) ME and (3) SEs and will conduct simultaneous platoon attacks. At 1000, our company will conduct air insert to LZ Vulture (ME), LZ Snipe (SE1), and LZ Canary (SE2). Platoons will establish ORPs IVO of TH 830 777 (ME), TH 831 765 (SE1), and TH 845 772 (SE2) and conduct leader’s reconnaissance on assigned objectives. ME will attack LZ Snipe (CO OBJ A).  SE1 will attack LZ Canary (CO OBJ B).  SE2 will attack LZ Vulture (CO OBJ C). Platoons will attack assigned objectives via route of their choosing. Platoons will stage main packs at insert LZs. Actions on objective will be complete NLT 1400. 


        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.  


            (a) (U) Task. Limit the enemy’s ability to maneuver in and around the objective


            (b) (U) Purpose. Allow the maneuver to close with and destroy the enemy on the company objectives.  


            (c) (U) Method. We will use the battalion’s 81mm mortars and the company’s 60mm mortars in support of this attack.  POF 81s is to ME, SE2, and SE1. POF for 60s is SE1, ME, SE2.  Platoon Commanders are allocated three targets for your attack on your respective objectives. Company Target Block: 1st Plt:AD1100-1195, 3d Plt:AD3100-3195, 5th Plt:AD5100-5195.
            (d). (U) Effects. Enemy on objectives suppressed to allow the maneuver element to close within direct fire weapons systems effective ranges and establish support by fire positions. 


    c. (U) Tasks


        (1) (U) 1st Platoon. ME. NLT 1100 insert at LZ Vulture. NLT 1400 destroy the MRA platoon battle position IVO LZ Snipe (Co Obj A) IOT allow the company to seize LZ Snipe. BPT conduct follow on offensive operations.  Remain West of 835 Easting IOT prevent interruption with friendly operations within the AO. Effective immediately you have one MG SQD attached. (Enemy at insert LZ are not in play).


        (2) (U) 3rd Platoon SE1. NLT 1100 insert at LZ Snipe. NLT 1400 destroy the MRA platoon battle position IVO LZ Canary (Co Obj B) IOT allow the company to seize LZ Canary. BPT conduct follow on offensive operations.  Remain south of 775 Northing IOT prevent interruption with friendly operations within the AO. Effective immediately you have one MG SQD attached. (Enemy at insert LZ are not in play). 


        (3) (U) 5th Platoon. SE2. NLT 1100 insert at LZ Canary.  NLT 1400 destroy the MRA platoon battle position IVO LZ Vulture (Co Obj C) IOT allow the company to seize LZ Vulture. BPT conduct follow on offensive operations. Remain north of 775 Northing IOT prevent interruption with friendly operations within the AO. Effective immediately you have one MG SQD attached. (Enemy at insert LZ are not in play).   


        (4) (U) 60mm Mortar Section SE3. Upon insertion, establish a firing position IVO LZ Pheasant IOT support offensive operations.  FIRECAP NLT 1130. 


    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions


        (1) (U) Timeline  


0600-0630:        Ammo Draw and comm checks 
0730-0830:         Platoon Order issue           
0845:                 All COC Coordination complete
0845-0930:         Stage MACO for Insert
0930-1100:         Insert
NLT 1130:         81s and 60s capable of receiving fire missions
1400:                Actions on Objective complete


        (2) (U) Tactical Control Measures: TBD by Platoon Commander, ensure coordination with COC.  


        (3) (U) Lost Marine Plan: TBD by platoon commanders.


        (4) (U) MOPP level.  MOPP Ready. Intel reports enemy has used a blood agent in the past and is currently capable of employing a blood agent.    


        (5) (U) Rules of Engagement.  Individuals carrying a weapon are NOT declared hostile. Engage only Hostile Forces and Combatants. A Hostile Force is any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or terrorists, with or without national designation, that has committed a hostile act, exhibited hostile intent, or has been declared hostile by appropriate U.S. authority. Hostile forces may also be called Enemy Combatants. Hostile Act (HA): an attack or other use of force against U.S. forces. Some examples of possible hostile intent are an individual burying a suspicious cylinder along a road (likely improvised explosive device), an unknown armed group massing in your area of operation, or an unknown vehicle speeding to catch up with your convoy. Positive Identification (PID)* is required to engage. *Positive Identification (PID): A reasonable certainty that your target is a legitimate military target. *PID does not require 100% certainty. You must have clear line of sight to target and know what is behind it.


4. (U) Administration and Logistics


    a. (U) Administration


        (1) (U) Enemy Prisoners of War.  Platoon commanders will develop internal EPW plan. All EPW’s hand over will be conducted along a trafficable road/trail. Link up will be conducted with no less than 6 Marines to provide security at the link up sight. Link up marking must be passed to COC before vehicle is launched. Upon link up, provide challenge and pass to the vehicle. Vehicle commander will provide loading instructions and receive TSE (Tactical Sight Exploitation) report. 




        (2) (U) CASEVAC.  Platoon commanders will develop internal CAEVAC plans. Coordinate CASEVAC plan including extract LZs with COC.  All casualties requiring evacuation above the platoon level will be evacuated by air coordinated through the company CP.  The USS Mesa Verde will have (1) CASEVAC UH-60 Seahawk on 15 minute alert.  The USS Mesa Verde will be the primary CASEVAC ship, which has a level II surgical capability.  Casualties will receive initial treatment and urgent surgical procedures on the USS Mesa Verde before being transferred to the Hospital at Camp Barrett.  Plan for ground Cas Evac if no LZs are IVO of your objective.
                


    b. (U) Logistics 


1. (U) Reporting- LOGSTATS will be reported to the COC between the hours of 0400-0600 AND between 1600-1800. Reports for the following sections need to be sent up to the COC with what is currently on hand and what is requested. If items are requested a linkup plan must be provided to the CoGySgt
   1. Ammunition
      1. 5.56
      2. 7.62
      3. White Star Cluster
      4. Green Star Cluster
      5. White Smoke
      6. Green Smoke
      7. Yellow Smoke
   2. Chow and Water
      1. Water (Report in total Litters in camelback, canteen/nalgean)
      2. Chow (Report total MRE’s on hand)
      3. Water jugs (Report total jugs on hand followed by percentage of water on hand)


2. (U) Ammunition.  All platoons will receive the following allocation. Before inserting into the AO. We will not have the ability to resupply until the evening on the 3rd day. If an emergency resupply is required, the support will no be on station for at least 8 hours and will be delivered by vehicle. Link up making plan must be provided to the COC before resupply is launched.




	5.56
	7.62
	White Star Cluster
	Green Star Cluster
	White Smoke
	Green Smoke
	Yellow Smoke
	

	1St
	10,000
	2,400
	4
	4
	4
	4
	4
	

	3rd
	10,000
	2,400
	4
	4
	4
	4
	4
	

	5th
	10,000
	2,400
	4
	4
	4
	4
	4
	

	



3. (U) Chow and Water.  


	Water
	Chow
	Water Jugs
	Water Purification Tablets
	

	1st
	No less than 250l of water per Plt or 5l per Marine
	5 DOS
	3 Water Jugs- Jugs will be maintained and swapped for full jugs at link ups
	Recommended for each Marine to have 25 water purification tablets
	

	3rd
	No less than 250l of water per Plt or 5l per Marine
	5 DOS
	3 Water Jugs- Jugs will be maintained and swapped for full jugs at link ups
	Recommended for each Marine to have 25 water purification tablets
	

	5th
	No less than 250l of water per Plt or 5l per Marine
	5 DOS
	3 Water Jugs- Jugs will be maintained and swapped for full jugs at link ups
	Recommended for each Marine to have 25 water purification tablets
	

	

        (4) (U) Resupply. All resupply requests must be submitted during the designated LOGSTAT times to the COC. Any emergency request will require at least (8) hours to coordinate and arrive on station. 


5. (U) Command and Signal


    a. (U) Signal


1. (U) Signal Plan. Platoon commanders develop signal plans IAW SOM and CEOI. Radio checks and communications will occur at the top of the hour. If a separate element is breaking away from the platoon, a SITREP is required to deconflict the battlespace.
2. No Comm Plan. Timeline below outlines the Co No Comm Plan 
   1. 1st comm check missed- continue with mission and attempt to reestablish Comm. 
   2. 2nd comm check missed- Continue with mission and attempt to reestablish Comm. COC will attempt to contact PLT every 30 min.
   3. 3rd comm check missed- Attempt to contact adjacent PLT’s IOT pass SITREPs to the COC. If unable to communicate with adjacent units roll to plain text and pass brevity (assigned below in table)




3. (U) Frequencies and Callsigns. IAW CEOI.
No Comm Freq and brevity codes
	Freq
	Mission Capable
	Resupply required
	CASEVAC Required
	Unable to complete mission
	51.51
	Chesty Puller
	Steak and Eggs
	Blacklist
	Burner
	



4. (U) Challenge and Password.  
   1. Verbal- Challenge--- Yeti /// Pass--- Flathead
   2. Running- Binder 
   3. Numbers adding to 11
   4. Night IR flash- Challenge--- 3 IR Flash /// Pass--- 5 IR Flash/// Confirmation--- 2 long IR Flash
   5. Near and Far- Challenge--- V Hand and arm signal /// Pass--- Skirmisher’s hand and arm signal/// Confirmation--- touchdown


    b. (U) Command. 


        (1) (U) Location of Key Leaders.  I will be located at the Company Command Post at LZ Pheasant.  XO, 1stSgt and the Company Gunnery Sergeant will remain at the CP. 


        (2) (U) Succession of Command.  XO, Wpns Plt Cmdr, ME Plt Cmdr, SE1 Plt Cmdr, and SE2 Plt Cmdr.








ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT


UNCLASSIFIED