UNCLASSIFIED
Copy no. ___ of ___ copies
THE BASIC SCHOOL
                                                                        QUANTICO, VIRGINIA
                                                                        FEX I – LZ 7 1st Plt Order


General Situation.  You are the Squad Leaders of 1st Platoon, Fox Company, 2d Battalion 7th Marines.  You are currently in Assembly Area (AA) LZ 7 in the vicinity of (IVO) Camp Barrett, a village located in the province of Centralia. DZ Raven is currently being utilized as a convoy staging area and local distribution center for UN supplies, along with several other sites in the area of operations (AO).  Your battalion recently arrived in this AO and has been briefed that over the last several months the Montanya Regular Army (MRA) has terrorized Camp Barrett through a campaign of intimidation, kidnappings, and murders.  The MRA are not a conventional force such as ours, but they do have a command and control node. The MRA are very proficient fighters but lack the weapon systems and technology we bring to the fight. Recently, the MRA have been predominantly conducting their terror campaign through systematically hijacking UN supplies in order to corrupt and influence the local government. In an effort to stabilize Camp Barrett and Centralia as a whole, our Battalion and specifically our Company has been tasked with securing Camp Barrett and the surrounding areas in order to allow the humanitarian efforts to proceed unimpeded.


Orientation.  Our Area of Operations (AO) is bordered by MCB-3 to the East and North, 84 Easting (parallel to Route 643) to the West, and Aquia Creek to the South.  We are currently located in LZ 7, which serves as our company’s Ammunition Supply Point (ASP) and assembly area, as well as a UN logistics hub. Off-road travel is restricted for vehicles and unrestricted for dismounts.   Surrounding areas are characterized by dense vegetation, numerous draws ranging 20 – 50 meters in depth.  Water frequently occupies the base of the draws after periods of rain, but may not be depicted on our maps. Observation: Visibility ranges from 50-200m during the winter months and 25-100m during summer months. Cover & Concealment: Heavily vegetated areas provide the most concealment for movement, while some low lying areas around Aquia Creek are lightly vegetated and provide enhanced visibility for us and the enemy. Numerous fingers and draws can facilitate cover for movement depending on our direction of travel. Obstacles: Aquia Creek is not normally fordable during the winter months but an adjacent company has reported several positions where foot mobile traffic can cross, although none have been identified in our Company AO as of now. Key Terrain: LZ 7, our assembly area, provides a staging area and distribution center for UN supplies, and therefore is a high priority for MRA forces. Several clearings in surrounding areas are potentially suitable for use as helicopter landing zones for resupply, casualty and EPW evacuation purposes. Avenues of Approach: All unimproved roads are trafficable by both friendly and enemy forces and can also be utilized in conjunction with the MSRs for resupply, casualty and EPW evacuation purposes. Due to lighter vegetation and moderate terrain along water features, dismounted enemy avenues of approach are likely along guiding features such as Aquia Creek.  Potable water sources are available throughout the AO.


1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  During the past 24 hours, the MRA have deployed multiple squad (+) sized elements IVO Camp Barrett. Intelligence suggests at least two MRA squad (+) sized units have entered our AO from the South and West of Aquia Creek and the North and West of Road 643. These squads have typically operated in a disaggregated manner, gathering information and familiarizing themselves with the terrain and MSR’s in this area. Recent intelligence indicates that once the MRA have reconnoitered our ASP and logistics hub in LZ 7, they will attempt to conduct harassing attacks on the ASP defenses to determine our disposition and strength, eventually massing to conduct a deliberate attack on our ASP and logistics hub. Total force strength of all the MRA squads in the Company AO appears to be about 30-40 fighters.  The MRA are armed with near peer style small arms including some captured US small arms, M240-Bs, RPGs, and have the ability to coordinate indirect fire. The MRA were last seen wearing desert camouflage uniforms.  Communications are conducted with cellular phones and civilian radios which limits their ability to command and control.


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The MRA is capable of defending their positions but given their small size, they will be unable to defend effectively against squad size elements or larger. MRA is unable to reinforce from outside the AO, while they are capable of limited reinforcement from inside the AO within 45 mins, based on successful communication with adjacent MRA forces in vicinity of LZ 7. The MRA are able to conduct small scale harassing attacks when they can achieve surprise, typically inflicting maximum casualties with light machine guns or small arms before breaking contact and egressing. The MRA is capable of withdrawal, and is likely to withdraw in the direction of MRA forces SW or NE of our AO in order to consolidate their forces as we do not expect them to become decisively engaged.  


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  The enemy’s mission is to reconnoiter our AO and the ASP at LZ 7 in order to enable continued harassment of UN convoys and disruption of the local government. At night, they are conducting ambushes and reconnaissance patrols in our AO, while during the day they alternate between reconnaissance of the AO and defense of their ingress and egress routes. I expect the MRA to defend their ingress routes just outside of our AO with squad (+) size elements. I believe they are at 25% security, moving well-rested fire team (-) elements into our AO during the day in order to provide reconnaissance of friendly force dispositions and early warning to MRA forces. On contact, the enemy fire team (-) elements will defend initially and if not suppressed, attempt to withdraw in the direction of the closest MRA squad position. If they have the element of surprise and advantageous terrain, the enemy will seek to inflict maximum casualties through small-scale ambushes.  I expect the MRA to egress from our AO in the late evening, utilizing the same ingress routes, with new teams infiltrating again in the early morning under the cover of darkness.


    b. (U) Friendly


         (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  (SE) On order, Fox Company clears MRA forces from the AO IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts and conducting intimidation campaigns IVO Camp Barrett.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) Echo Company- (SE1) for the Battalion. Located at LZ Hen (LZ Hen is a large humanitarian distribution center and Golf Company is tasked with defending it).


            (b) (U) 3d Platoon- (SE2) NLT 1100, destroy enemy elements IVO Camp Barrett IOT prevent the MRA from interfering with humanitarian operations IVO Camp Barrett.


            (c) (U) 5th Platoon- (SE3) NLT 1100, destroy enemy elements IVO Camp Barrett IOT prevent the MRA from interfering with humanitarian operations IVO Camp Barrett.


            (d) (U) Weapons Platoon- (SE4) NLT 0900. Protect insert points along Washboard road IOT allow squads to insert via vehicular assets. NLT 1100, interdict MRA forces along MSRs and unimproved roads IOT prevent MRA attacks and use as avenues of approach.  BPT follow and support 1st Platoon’s attacks in the AO and conduct EPW and casualty evacuations. You have eight HMMWV’s and three 7-tons attached immediately.


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Company 60mm mortar firing position located IVO LZ 7.  In direct support of 1st Platoon.


    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None


2. (U) Mission.  We are the Main Effort.  NLT 1100 1st Platoon destroys MRA forces IVO platoon objectives IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts and conducting intimidation campaigns IVO Camp Barrett.


3. (U) Execution


    a. (U) Commanders Intent.  The purpose of this operation is to prevent the MRA from interfering with humanitarian efforts and conducting intimidation campaigns.  The enemy’s center of gravity is their depth provided by numerous small-sized units conducting harassing attacks and reconnaissance throughout our AO. The enemy’s critical vulnerability is their inability to mass and concentrate their forces due to their lack of mutual support and command and control.  I will exploit this vulnerability by conducting simultaneous squad attacks on isolated MRA units.  My desired endstate is that the MRA is destroyed and unable to conduct operations IVO Camp Barrett, our AO is clear of MRA forces and humanitarian efforts have complete freedom of movement to and from LZ 7.


    b. (U) Concept of Operations


        (1) (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  Our platoon direction of attack is West from LZ 7. We will conduct independent squad attacks throughout the AO on suspected enemy defensive positions during daylight hours.   We will have two supporting efforts (SE) and a main effort (ME).  At 0900, each squad will independently depart our AA at LZ 7. Depending on the objective, squads may be inserted via vehicular assets by our Weapons Platoon. Initial formation of movement will be squad column.  NLT 1100, each squad will have destroyed any MRA forces IVO their objective.  The main effort will destroy MRA IVO Platoon Objective 1 at TH 864 641.  SE 1 will destroy MRA IVO Platoon Objective 2 at TH 865 635.  SE 2 will destroy MRA IVO Platoon Objective 3 IVO TH 863 634. After assaulting through their assigned objective, each squad will consolidate in the direction of the enemy, contact the platoon commander, and be prepared for follow-on operations.  Each squad leader will be responsible for determining their distribution of forces, formations of movement, additional tactical control measures, and form of maneuver to support their attacks.  All squads will return to the Company AA NLT 1900. Mission has priority.


        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.  


            (a) (U) Task.  Limit the MRA’s ability to affect friendly units with direct fire weapons.


            (b) (U) Purpose.  In order to allow 1st platoon to destroy the MRA without being affected by direct fire weapons.


            (c) (U) Method.  


                1. (U) We will utilize company’s 60mm mortars in support of this attack.  1st Platoon has priority of fires.   1st, 2nd, and 3rd squad are each allocated one priority target during the operation.  Restrictions: None. 
        
            (d). (U) Effects.  Neutralize MRA forces in our area of operations.


    c. (U) Tasks


        (1) (U) 1st Squad.  You are the platoon’s ME.  NLT 1100, destroy MRA unit IVO TH 864 641 IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts along Washboard Road.  You will insert via foot IVO LZ-7.


        (2) (U) 2nd Squad.  You are the platoon’s SE 1.  NLT 1100, destroy MRA units IVO TH 865 635 IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts along Washboard Road.  You will insert via foot IVO LZ-7.


        (3) (U) 3rd Squad.  You are the platoon’s SE 2.  NLT 1100, destroy MRA unit IVO TH 863 634 IOT prevent them from interfering with humanitarian efforts along Washboard Road. You will insert via foot IVO LZ-7.


    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions


        (1) (U) Direction of Attack. Company – North, Platoon – Multiple Directions  


        (2) (U) Formations for Movement. Determined by squad leaders.   


        (3) (U) Tactical Control Measure.  


            (a) (U) AA: LZ 7


            (b) (U) ATK POS: Determined by squad leader


            (c) (U) LD: Determined by squad leader  


            (d) (U) ASLT POS: Determined by squad leader  


        (4) (U) Timeline  
0715                Ammo Draw, Comm Draw, PCCs (Initial Inspection)
0745                Squad Orders Process
0845                 Final PCCs and Radio Check with Platoon Commander
0900                   Insert/Cross LD
NLT 1100        Enemy destroyed on objective
NLT 1900        RTB


        (5) (U) Lost Marine Plan.  Squad leaders are responsible for developing their own Lost Marine Plans. 


        (6) (U) MOPP Level.  MOPP Ready.  Intel reports enemy has used a blood agent in the past and is currently capable of employing a blood agent.  


4. (U) Administration and Logistics


    a. (U) Administration


        (1) (U) Enemy Prisoners of War.  At gunpoint, each EPW will be searched, back to front, lying flat on the ground, arms and legs extended.  In the case of multiple EPWs, each will be secured and segregated, with no more than 2 per fire team.  Silence EPWs utilizing gauze gags and medical tape, and black-out goggles.  Utilize NATO standard EPW tags and zip lock bags to tag and maintain confiscated items.  Pick up of EPWs will be coordinated by the squad leader through the platoon sergeant. Squad leaders are responsible for establishing pre-planned EPW collection points with platoon leadership. Evacuation will be via ground with support from Weapons Platoon to the Company AA.  The platoon sergeant will coordinate the evacuation through the Company First Sergeant who will maintain tracking of EPWs.


        (2) (U) CASEVAC.  All casualties will be immediately treated and communicated to the platoon commander.  Urgent and priority casualty evacuations will be coordinated by the squad leader through the platoon sergeant. Squad leaders are responsible for establishing pre-planned casualty collection points with platoon leadership.  Primary means of evacuation will be via ground with support from Weapons Platoon, secondary by air.  The platoon sergeant will coordinate the evacuation through the squad leaders and push information to the Company First Sergeant.  Once the evacuating element is dispatched, the squad leader will conduct the link up via radio (primary) and secondary signal (smoke).  The casualty will be transported back to the Company Assembly Area at LZ 7 and will be tracked by the Company First Sergeant.  Routine casualties will be cared for upon return to the Company AA.


    b. (U) Logistics


        (1) (U) Ammunition.  Draw one day of supply (DOS) for ammo and batteries from the Co GySgt prior to insert.


        (2) (U) Chow and Water.  Draw one day of supply (DOS) of chow and a full load of water prior to insert.


        (3) (U) Resupply.  Limited resupply will be available on call via Weapons Platoon and the Company Gunnery Sergeant. 


5. (U) Command and Signal


    a. (U) Signal


        (1) (U) Signal Plan.  Red Star Cluster is reserved for Company Signals and is for Emergency Medevac only.  Squad leaders can expect an allocation of (1) Green and (1) Yellow Smoke.  


         (2) (U) Frequencies and Call signs.  The CEOI will be published within the next 24 hours.


        (3) (U) Challenge and Password.  Determined by squad leaders.


    b. (U) Command. 


        (1) (U) Location of Key Leaders.  The PltCmdr, the Plt Sgt, and Guide will be at the Plt CP in LZ 7.


        (2) (U) Succession of Command.  Plt Sgt, Plt Guide, 1st SqdLdr, 2d SqdLdr, and 3rd SqdLdr.








ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT


UNCLASSIFIED