UNCLASSIFIED
Copy no. ___ of ___ copies
THE BASIC SCHOOL
                                                                        QUANTICO, VIRGINIA
                                                                        PLT D STEX


General Situation.  You are the 2d Platoon Commander, Company D, 2/7.  The battalion has been operating for several weeks in the Bordolo Rio province of the Quantico Highlands.  Company D is currently at Camp Barrett.  The company was tasked with providing physical security for the combat logistics base located at Camp Barrett.  Camp Barrett is currently supporting all Marine forces in the region.  Over the course of the past two weeks the logistics base has been the location of numerous MRA infiltrations.  Intelligence sources have reported that MRA infiltrations may have been aimed at attempting to disrupt logistical support to forward units by destroying the logistics base – specifically its motor transport area, ammunition supply point (ASP) and fuel farm – which prompted the new orders for 2/7.  Delta Company had conducted extensive day and night patrols in order to eliminate MRA infiltrations.  Two days ago, your patrols engaged the MRA, resulting in the death of one U. S. Marine.  Higher has just directed the displacement of the ASP to the field in vicinity of LZ Hawk.  Additionally, he ordered 2/7 to participate in combat operations aimed at destroying several MRA positions recently identified in your assigned AO.  


Orientation.  Company D’s AO is bordered by Chapala Creek to the North, Bordolo Rio Road approximately 1 km to the East (off the sand table), and Hidalgo Road to the South and West.  A prominent gravel road runs throughout the AO into LZ Hawk.  All roads are considered unrestricted for wheeled vehicle traffic.  The vegetation in the Quantico Highlands consists of medium growth hardwood deciduous and evergreen trees with occasional open fields.  The terrain includes rolling hills and fingers with numerous streams and draws.  Thick underbrush and deadfall can be found throughout the region particularly near most streambeds and low areas.  Visibility is limited to 400m in open clearings or marsh areas and reduced to 50m within densely wooded areas.  Off road travel by vehicles is considered severely restricted. All areas are considered unrestricted for foot mobile infantry.  The unimproved roads within the AO are unrestricted for vehicles dependent upon weather.  During heavy precipitation, the unimproved roads may become restricted to severely restricted.  Visibility is dependent upon the season.  Illumination will be 25-30% in hours of darkness.  Weather is as it is today.  


1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


        (1) (U) Composition/Disposition/Strength.  During the past 24 hours, the MRA have deployed multiple squads throughout the Bordolo Rio region of the Quantico Highlands located northeast of Camp Barrett.  These units are thought to be attempting to build up their combat power in order to prepare for a possible attack on U.S. forces.  At 0500 this morning, BN scout sniper teams sighted numerous MRA squad patrols within our AO.  They are armed with a U.S. small arms and 60mm mortars, and wear woodland camouflage uniforms. The MRA are known to have limited night vision capabilities.  


        (2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations.  The enemy is capable of defending if they are able to capture LZ Hawk and mass to a platoon size or larger. They are limited by their lack of organization as they are dispersed throughout the AO.  MRA units are capable of reinforcing with up to a platoon size within (45) minutes if they are able to reconnoiter a weak spot in our perimeter defense. They are limited by the distance between their units and thick vegetation in some areas. Due to their current posture, the MRA is capable of conducting hasty attacks on units of like size or smaller, also they are capable of attacking a platoon sized element if they either have surprise or can utilize IDF and maneuver into a position of tactical advantage. They are limited by their desire to avoid decisive contact until they have massed to a platoon size or greater.  The MRA are capable of withdrawing along the multiple avenues of approach and will do so if they become decisively engaged with a platoon sized element or if they suffer 2-3 casualties. They are limited by thick vegetation and steep terrain.  The MRA has the capability to delay the occupation of our defensive position or priorities of work if they are able to identify where we are establishing our defense before we establish depth. They are limited by their inability to coordinate indirect fire at the squad level or lower.


        (3) (U) Enemy Most Likely Course of Action.  I believe that the EN’s mission is to seize the FASP in LZ Hawk IOT stage for a follow-on attack on Camp Barrett. The EN is currently trying to build up combat power in preparation for a Plt(+) attack.  I believe the MRA will use small units to probe and infiltrate our defenses in order to gain intelligence on the disposition of our forces.  On contact, I believe the enemy’s most likely course of action is to use indirect fires and light machine guns to suppress our position and conduct a flanking attack with a platoon.


    b. (U) Friendly


         (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  O/O, 2/7 clears the MRA within the battalion’s AO in order to create a stable environment for future elections in the Bordolo Rio Province.  The commander’s desired endstate is that the FASP remains under friendly control, the enemy is unable to conduct an attack on Camp Barrettt, and friendly forces are ready to conduct follow-on missions.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) West.  None


            (b) (U) South.  Company E (Bn SE1).  NLT 0900, clear S of Hidalgo Rd IOT prevent EN infiltration and exploitation of the Camp Barrett logistics base.  


            (c) (U) North.  At 0600, Bn Scout Snipers reconnoiter and observe MRA forces N of LZ Hawk.  Report any observed MRA activity directly to the Battalion S-2.  Reconnoiter IOT provide D Co with an early warning for enemy infiltration from the north.


            (d) (U) East.  Company F (BN ME).  NLT 0900, clear the MRA forces in the Bordolo Rio region of the Quantico Highlands IOT prevent the massing of MRA combat power within our AO.  


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Artillery.  Kilo Battery, 3/11 (the FS component of the BLT) is located in a Gun Position (GP) approximately 5km S of LZ Hawk.  DS of the battalion. POF is to F, D, E


            (b) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars.  81mm Mortar Platoon. GS of the battalion. NLT 0600, they will establish a Mortar Firing Position (MFP) IVO BN COC(fwd), approximately 2km SW of LZ Hawk.  POF is to F, D, E.


    c. (U) Attachments/Detachments.  (1) Engineer squad attached.


2. (U) Mission.  We are SE2.  NLT 1300, protect the FASP @ LZ Hawk IOT prevent EN seizure or destruction of the resources at the FASP.  


3. (U) Execution


    a. (U) Commanders Intent.  The purpose of this operation is to prevent the enemy from seizing or destroying the resources at the FASP.  I believe the enemy’s Center of Gravity is his maneuverability.  I believe his Critical Vulnerability is that after conducting reconnaissance at the squad level, he must mass to effectively capture or destroy the FASP.  I plan to exploit this by defending in sector around LZ Hawk to neutralize enemy forces before they can recon the FASP and mass for an attack.  My endstate is that MRA in our sector are neutralized and rendered incapable of destroying or seizing resources from the FASP, the FASP remains under friendly control, and the Company is prepared for follow on operations.


    b. (U) Concept of Operations


        (1) (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  Our distribution of forces will be one platoon ME, and two platoon SE’s.  We are currently in Camp Barrett.  At 0800, we will conduct a heliborne insert into LZ Hawk.  Company D will establish a company perimeter defense with three platoons in battle positions IVO LZ Hawk.  The orientation of the ME will be northeast.  Immediately upon insert, platoons will recon from the AA to their respective BPs and determine the locations of the engagement areas.  Exact locations of the platoon battle positions will be determined by the platoon commanders during their leader’s reconnaissance.  Platoons will occupy their positions by a technique of the platoon commander’s choosing.  Alternate positions, squad-sized supplementary positions, obstacle plans and early warning indicators should be used to the maximum extent possible to provide flexibility within each platoon BP.  Each platoon must provide at least one LP/OP and patrolling effort focused on the gaps between platoon sectors.  We will initiate patrols NLT 1 hour after occupation.


        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.  


            (a) (U) EFST 1


                1 (U) Task.  Limit the enemy’s ability to mass forces for a deliberate attack on the FASP at LZ Hawk.


                2 (U) Purpose.  Allow the companies to engage the enemy forward of their engagement areas and prevent their ability to mass.


                3 (U) Method.  I will use the company 60mm mortars in support of the defense.  POF for 60s is 2d, 3d, 1st.  Platoon commanders submit one target.


                4 (U) Effects.  Enemy platoon neutralized and unable to mass for a deliberate attack; friendly units able to engage the enemy forward their engagement areas.


            (a) (U) EFST 2


                1 (U) Task.  Disrupt the enemy’s ability to close with, in a deliberate attack on the FASP at LZ Hawk


                2 (U) Purpose.  Allow the company to destroy the enemy in their engagement areas and prevent interference with the battalion FASP.


                3 (U) Method.  I will use the company 60mm mortars in support of the defense.  POF for 60s is 2d, 3d, 1st. Platoon commanders submit two targets; one of which will be your FPF.


                4 (U) Effects.  Enemy platoons neutralized and unable to interfere with battalion FASP; friendly units able to engage the enemy in their engagement areas.


    c. (U) Tasks


        (1) (U) 2d Platoon.  [Student]  SE1.  NLT 1300, block Northwest from LZ Hawk in sector A IOT prevent EN seizure or destruction of the resources at the FASP.  You have (1) engineer team attached, effective immediately. 


        (2) (U) 1st Platoon.  ME.  NLT 1300, block Northwest from LZ Hawk in sector A IOT prevent EN seizure or destruction of the resources at the FASP.  You have (1) machine gun squad and (1) engineer team attached, effective immediately.


        (3) (U) 3rd Platoon.  SE2.  NLT 1300, block Northwest from LZ Hawk in sector A IOT prevent EN seizure or destruction of the resources at the FASP.  You have one (1) machine gun squad attached, effective immediately.


        (4) (U) Weapons Platoon  


            (a) (U) 60mm Mortar Section.  SE3.  O/O, suppress the enemy IVO Company D defensive sector IOT prevent EN seizure or destruction of the resources at the FASP.  NLT 1000, establish a mortar firing position (MFP) IVO LZ Hawk.   DOF will be 1000 mils grid.  NLT 1030, establish fire capability (FIRECAP) and BPT receive fire missions.  The company commander will assign POF based on the enemy situation.


            (c) (U) Machine Gun Section.  You are to detach (1) machine gun squad to 1st and (1) machine guns squads to 3d platoon, effective immediately.


    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions


        (1) (U) Timeline  
0500        Plts issue orders (tentative SOM)
0545         Prep for combat (issue ammo, radio checks, conduct rehearsals).
0800         Conduct helo insert, push to platoon ORPs.
0900        Leader’s recon, (revise SOM as needed)
1300        Defense occupied, prepared to defend


        (2) (U) Priorities of Work.  Determined by platoon commanders.


        (3) (U) Priorities of Rehearsals.  Determined by platoon commanders.


        (4) (U) Lost Marine Plan.  Platoons will be conducting autonomous insertion into LZ Hawk and immediately moving to their ORP’s.  Thus, platoon commanders are responsible for developing their Lost Marine Plans.  BPT brief the Company Commander before we depart Camp Barrett.


        (5) (U) No Comm Plan.  If communication is lost between LZ Hawk and BPs, return to LZ Hawk.  Platoon commanders develop your own internal no-comm plan.  


        (6) (U) MOPP Level.  Zero.


        (7) (U) Rules of Engagement.  Individuals carrying a weapon are NOT declared hostile. Engage only Hostile Forces and Combatants. A Hostile Force is any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or terrorists, with or without national designation, that has committed a hostile act, exhibited hostile intent, or has been declared hostile by appropriate U.S. authority. Hostile forces may also be called Enemy Combatants. Hostile Act (HA): an attack or other use of force against U.S. forces. Some examples of possible hostile intent are an individual burying a suspicious cylinder along a road (likely improvised explosive device), an unknown armed group massing in your area of operation, or an unknown vehicle speeding to catch up with your convoy. Positive Identification (PID)* is required to engage. *Positive Identification (PID): A reasonable certainty that your target is a legitimate military target. *PID does not require 100% certainty. You must have clear line of sight to target and know what is behind it.


4. (U) Administration and Logistics


    a. (U) Administration


        (1) (U) Enemy Prisoners of War.  All EPWs will be handled with 5 Ss and a T.  Report detainment of all prisoners over the Co Tac Net.  Upon consolidation, transport all prisoners to the Co XO IVO Co CP.  The Co XO will coordinate prisoner transport to the Battalion S-2 located at the BN COC.


        (2) (U) CASEVAC.  All casualties will be stabilized and extracted to the Company Corpsman at the Company CP.  Report all urgent casualties over the Co Tac Net.  All priority/urgent casualties will be moved to the casualty collection point (CCP) IVO the Co CP within LZ Hawk for extraction.  The Co GySgt will coordinate all casualty extraction.


    b. (U) Logistics


        (1) (U) Ammunition.  All Marines will have a standard fighting load: (6) magazines 5.56mm for all M16 service rifles. In addition, all M203 grenade launchers will have (3) HEDP and (3) 40mm Illum rounds.  


        (2) (U) Chow and Water.  All Marines will step off from the AA with (2) DOS chow, (2) full canteens, and (1) full camelback.


        (3) (U) Pyro.  Each rifle platoon will be issued (3) WSP’s, (3) GSC’s, (3) YSMKs, and (3) WSC’s.  


        (4) (U) Pioneer Gear.  Platoons will be issued (1) shovel and (1) pickaxe per squad.  


        (4) (U) Resupply.  All requests for re-supply will go through the Company GySgt at the Co CP.


5. (U) Command and Signal


    a. (U) Signal


        (1) (U) Signal Plan.  Platoon commanders will back brief platoon signal plans to company commander prior to issuing platoon orders.




Event
	Primary
	Alternate
	Tertiary
	Platoon Release
	Radio 
	Messenger
	Hand/Arm
	Consolidation
	Radio
	Messenger
	None
	Fire FPF
	Radio 
	WSP
	Messenger
	

        (2) (U) Frequencies and Callsigns


Unit
	Callsign
	Frequency
	Company Tac 
	Godfather 
	112
	Company 60s
	Godfather mortars
	113
	1st Plt Tac 
	Red
	114 
	2d Plt Tac 
	White
	115 
	3d Plt Tac 
	Blue
	116
	Bn Tac 1 
	Tarawa
	230 
	Bn Tac 2 
	Tarawa
	231 
	Bn Log Net 
	Tarawa 
	234 
	Bn 81mm  
	Tarawa Mortars
	240 
	K, 3/11 
	Brimstone 
	302 
	

        (3) (U) Challenge and Password.  Primary: Water/Blackbird.  Alternate: Numbers adding up to 11.  Running: Blacksmith.


        (4) (U) Location of Communication Electronic Operations Instructions (CEOI).  All CEOI’s will be retained in the left shoulder pocket by all Platoon Commanders, Platoon Sergeants, Platoon Guides, Platoon RTO’s, and Squad Leaders.


    b. (U) Command. 


        (1) (U) Location of Key Leaders.  The BN COC(fwd) is with the BN ME.  The BN COC(rear) is IVO Camp Barrett.  All Company staff will be at the Company CP IVO LZ Hawk.


        (2) (U) Succession of Command.  XO, Weapons Platoon Commander, 1st        Platoon Commander, 2d Platoon Commander, 3d Platoon Commander.








ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT




        
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  



UNCLASSIFIED