UNCLASSIFIED
Copy no. ___ of ___ copies
THE BASIC SCHOOL
                                                                        QUANTICO, VIRGINIA
                                                                        10 Aug 2020
                                                                        MOUT – Platoon Attack Order


ASK YOUR SPC FOR YOUR LANE/SECTOR EACH BILLET HOLDER WILL CONDUCT ONE OF THE THREE TOTAL ATTACKS
General Situation.  You are a platoon commander for Company B, 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines. You are currently located IVO 794 727 (MOUT Town). Over the past few weeks the Company has been conducting continuous combat operations against the CRF forces in the Centralian Highland Province. During recent diplomatic negotiations, the country of Montanya has agreed to cease providing military support to the CRF, close its borders and stop providing refuge for withdrawing Centralian Forces.  With this loss of support, the Centralians have decided to withdraw and commit the remainder of their conventional forces into key urban areas.  During Operation MOUT FEX, we have destroyed several small elements in the suburbs of MOUT and UTC.  Our squad attacks were initially successful, however the CRF have re-infiltrated the city overnight and are now conducting a strongpoint defense in the larger buildings along the eastern side of town.   


Orientation.  The Company is currently located at an ORP, IVO 7939 7289. Our company AO is MOUT town and approximately the surrounding 5 kilometers in every direction.  Within the AO are LZ Kiwi to the south and MCB-5 to the east, running roughly north to south.  I have divided the city into three sectors: Alpha Sector, composed of buildings A1, A2, A3, and A4; Bravo Sector, composed of buildings B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, and C1; Charlie Sector, composed of buildings C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, and C7. Boundaries are depicted on the accompanying graphic.  MSR Tampa runs N-S through the city center. Building Composition of all buildings is reinforced concrete. 


1. (U) Situation


    a. (U) Enemy


 (1) (U) Composition, Disposition and Strength. Over the past 24 hours, intelligence collection assets have identified fire team sized units occupying MOUT Town. These units have occupied several buildings and are preparing rudimentary defenses. We believe they are waiting for reinforcements so they can build a mutually supporting, deliberate defense in depth. The CRF are wearing fatigues and carrying both US and Soviet-style small arms. No medium machineguns or rockets have been observed at this time. Their indirect capabilities include possible light mortar systems.  
(2) (U) Capabilities and Limitations (DRAW-D). The fireteam sized elements are capable of defending their positions against a squad (-) sized element by utilizing the cover of buildings and canalizing urban terrain to maximize effects of fires. They are limited by their small size, prohibiting them from defending multiple buildings or a single position against a squad size force or larger. They are capable of reinforcing from within the town to a squad-size. Reinforcing actions from within the town will be limited by the enemies need to maintain a distribution of forces across the town to repel friendly actions. The enemy is capable of conducting harassing attacks and deliberate ambushes at the fireteam level, however they are limited by their inability to mass firepower beyond small arms effects. Any offensive action will be followed with an immediate withdrawal. The enemy is capable of withdrawing to subsequent fireteam fighting positions or falling in with a larger squad sized position. The enemy will be afforded a myriad of building level withdrawal routes to facilitate this. He will be limited in his ability to utilize these egress routes as they are open areas of observation lacking cover from concealment or the effects of fires. Any enemy egressing from the town are likely to do so in an easterly direction utilizing the town to cover their movement into the tree line. The enemy is capable of delaying our advance into the city utilizing forward positions on the edges of the town using observers to call IDF on our advance and disrupt our formations and then engage us with direct fire weapons systems to slow our rate of march before withdrawing to more defendable positions. They are limited in their ability to delay by their wide distribution of small sized forces inability to mass combat power.


(3) (U) EMLCOA. I assess the EN’s mission is to block U.S. troop movement into MOUT Town IOT maintain their control and influence in the town and region. Currently, I believe the EN is establishing a defense in depth centered on the most fortified and defendable position in the city (Co Obj A).  I expect the enemy to have multiple positions established intended to delay our advance, first through the use of observers and IDF then with automatic weapons. Upon friendly forces gaining a foothold, positions of depth will withdraw and consolidate on squad sized positions, ultimately in support of the defense of Co Obj A. With withdrawal routes being cut by adjacent unit containment, I expect him to fight until destroyed in his final position. 




    b. (U) Friendly


         (1) (U) Higher’s Mission and Intent.  Mission: O/O, 2/7 destroys the enemy in Centralian Highland Province IOT deny the CRF units the ability to control the cities.  Method: The enemy Center of Gravity is their interlocking sectors and mutually supported positions.  The enemy’s Critical Vulnerability is the disaggregated nature of their subordinate positions, lacking a significant mass of firepower at any one position.  We will exploit their CV by isolating single positions in order to mitigate their mutual support. We will then mass combat power on each position and systematically seize the town one position at a time.  End state: The CRF forces are eliminated and the civilians are able to move back into their homes and pursue normalcy of living.


        (2) (U) Adjacent


            (a) (U) West.  Company C is currently occupying UTC in preparation for follow on missions.


            (b) (U) South.  Company D (+) is attacking and clearing 10 kilometers to the South along MSR Orlando.


            (c) (U) North.  Company E is currently seizing Combat Town.


            (d) (U) East.  Weapons Company screens to the east of Co B’s sector IOT prevent interference with company attacks and provide QRF if needed.


        (3) (U) Supporting.


            (a) (U) Artillery.  None


            (b) (U) Bn 81mm Mortars.  81mm Mortar Platoon located IVO LZ Goshawk GC 783740 in GS of the Battalion POF B, C, Weapons, and D.


      (4) (U) Attachments/Detachments.  None


2. (U) Mission.  O/O, Company B destroys the CRF located IVO MOUT town IOT allow civilian populace to return and re-establish normalcy of living.


3. (U) Execution


    a. (U) Commanders Intent.  PURPOSE: Prevent the enemy from reorganizing and massing combat power. METHOD: The enemy Center of Gravity is their ability to mass firepower in the compartmentalized terrain between the buildings. Their Critical Vulnerability is their lack of covered and concealed movement corridors between buildings.  We will exploit this by isolating the enemy squad battle positions and systematically destroying them with platoon attacks from west to east.  ENDSTATE: The enemy in MOUT Town is destroyed. Company G is consolidated on the east side of town. MSR Tampa is still operable for vehicle traffic.


    b. (U) Concept of Operations


        (1) (U) Scheme of Maneuver.  We will have 1 ME and 2 SEs. DOA is East. Company B will conduct simultaneous platoon attacks on enemy positions in MOUT Town. SE 1 will assemble 100m NW of MOUT Town and seize Company Objective A (Bldg A4). The ME will assemble 200m W of MOUT Town and seize Company Objective B (Bldg B3/4).  SE 2 will assemble 200m SW of MOUT Town and seize Company Objective C (Bldg C6/7).  Mortars will establish a mortar firing position IVO 7939 7289.  Upon seizure of all company objectives, all platoons will consolidate on the east side of town, oriented east, and stand by for follow on tasking.


        (2) (U) Fire Support Plan.  


            (a) (U) Task.  Suppress known enemy positions within MOUT Town.


            (b) (U) Purpose.  Allow platoons to secure a foothold in their respective sectors.


            (c) (U) Method.  


                1. (U) Platoon Commanders will submit two preplanned targets prior to briefing their order. Coordinate with COC.             


            (d). (U) Effects.  Enemy unable to effectively engage as platoons transition from the treeline into the town.


    c. (U) Tasks


        (1) (U) (LANE 1, Alpha Sector).         Platoon. You are SE 1. O/O seize Co Obj A IOT allow the main effort to seize Co Obj B. You will have 1 machine gun squad attached, and 1 assault team attached. 


        (2) (U) (LANE 2, Bravo Sector).         Platoon. You are the ME.  O/O seize Co Obj B IOT allow the civilian populace to return and re-establish normalcy of living.   You will have 1 machine gun squad attached, and 1 assault team attached. 


        (3) (U) (LANE 3, Charlie Sector).         Platoon.  You are SE2.  O/O seize Co Obj C IOT allow the main effort to seize Co Obj B.  You will have 1 machine gun squad attached, and 1 assault team attached. 


        (4) (U) Weapons Platoon. Attach 1 MG squad and 1 Assault team to each platoon effective immediately.  


            (5) (U) 60mm Mortar Section.  Establish 60mm mortar firing position IVO 7939 7289.  O/O suppress and obscure enemy IVO MOUT Town IOT prevent enemy forces from interfering with the company attack.


    d. (U) Coordinating Instructions


        (1) (U) Timeline: platoon commanders develop individual timelines.  Plan for roughly 2 ½ hours prior to LD through consolidation and re-supply.  


        (2) (U) Tactical Control Measure.  


                    (a) (U) (LANE 1).         Platoon.


                        1. (U) AA: 100m Northwest of Bldg A1


                        2. (U) CCP: Plt Cmdr Discretion


                        3. (U) Co Obj A: Bldg A4


                        4. (U) DOA: East


                        5. (U) Restrictions: Keep all personnel north of your platoon boundary (refer to imagery); however, fires can be oriented to the south due to the fact the rest of the city is unoccupied.


                    (b) (U) (LANE 2).         Platoon.  


                        1. (U) AA: 200m West of building B1.  


                        2. (U) CCP: Plt Cmdr discretion


                        3. (U) Co Obj B: Bldg B3/4


                        4. (U) DOA: East


                        5. (U) Restrictions: Keep all personnel between your platoon boundaries (refer to imagery); however, fires can be oriented to the south and north due to the fact the rest of the city is unoccupied.


                    (c) (U) (LANE 3).         Platoon.  


                        1. (U) AA: 200m Southwest of building C3.  


                        2. (U) CCP: Plt Cmdr Discretion


                        3. (U) Co Obj C: Bldg C6/7


                        4. (U) DOA: East


                        5. (U) Restrictions: Keep all personnel south of your platoon boundary (refer to imagery); however, fires can be oriented to the north due to the fact the rest of the city is unoccupied.


          (3) (U) Lost Marine Plan.  Each platoon is responsible for developing their own tactically sound Lost Marine Plan. Be prepared to brief me on your plans.


                (4) (U) Comm Plan.  Checks required upon commencing movement from treeline into town, upon commencing movement to next building in SOM, and upon securing any building.


                (5) (U) Air Defense Warning Condition.  White.  The enemy has limited UAS capability that they may attempt to use to call for fire or for recon.


                (6) (U) MOPP Level.  MOPP Ready.  Intel reports enemy has used a blood agent in the past and is currently capable of employing a blood agent.    


4. (U) Administration and Logistics


    a. (U) Administration


                (1) (U) Enemy Prisoners of War.  Platoon commanders will develop internal EPW plan. Coordinate EPW plan, including extract LZs with company. Company Gunnery Sergeant will coordinate with the Bn S-2/Bn Air Officer for MV-22 transportation to the Centralian detention facility on Quantico Island.  All EPWs must be transferred to the detention facility within 6 hours of capture.


                (2) (U) CASEVAC.  Platoon commanders will develop internal CASEVAC plans and backbrief company on planned CCPs. Coordinate CASEVAC plan with COC.  All casualties requiring evacuation above the platoon level will be evacuated by air coordinated through the company CP.  The USS Mesa Verde will have (1) CASEVAC UH-60 Seahawk on 15 minute alert.  The USS Mesa Verde will be the primary CASEVAC ship, which has a level II surgical capability.  Casualties will receive initial treatment and urgent surgical procedures on the USS Mesa Verde before being transferred to the Hospital at Camp Barrett.  Plan for ground CASEVAC if no LZs are IVO of your objective.


    b. (U) Logistics


                (1) (U) Ammunition.  Draw one day of supply (DOS) for ammo and batteries from the Co GySgt prior to insert.


                (2) (U) Chow and Water.  Draw four days of supply (DOS) of chow and four quarts water prior to insert.


                (3) (U) Pyro.  Available for pick up during COC Coordination


                (4) (U) Resupply.  The Co GySgt will handle the coordination for resupply upon consolidation at your respective objectives.  Platoons should pass any logistics requests to the Co GySgt via the appropriate net. 


5. (U) Command and Signal


    a. (U) Signal


                (1) (U) Signal Plan.  Platoon commanders will back brief signal plans to company commander prior to issuing platoon orders and request necessary pyro from the COC.


                 (2) (U) Frequencies and Callsigns.  Per CEOI


                (3) (U) Challenge and Password.  Determined by Platoon Commanders


                (4) (U) Location of Communication Electronic Operations Instructions (CEOI).  All CEOI’s will be retained in the left shoulder pocket by all Platoon Commanders, Platoon Sergeants, Platoon Guides, Platoon RTO’s, and Squad Leaders.


    b. (U) Command. 


                (1) (U) Location of Key Leaders.  During the attack, the Co XO, Co 1stSgt, and Co GySgt, and CO will be located in the Co CP IVO UTC.


                (2) (U) Succession of Command.  XO, ME Plt Cmdr, SE1 Plt Cmdr, SE2 Cmdr.




ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT




  



UNCLASSIFIED