Platoon Urban Patrolling Order 


General Situation: You are Platoon Commander, 3rd Platoon, Golf Co, Battalion Landing Team 2/7. Over the past few weeks the Company has been conducting continuous combat operations against the CRF and MRA forces in the Centralian Highland Province. During recent diplomatic negotiations, the country of Montanya has agreed to cease providing military support to the CRF, close its borders and stop providing refuge for withdrawing Centralian Forces.  With this loss of support, the Centralians have decided to withdraw and commit the remainder of their conventional forces into key urban areas.  During Operation MOUT FEX, we have destroyed several small and medium sized elements IVO MOUT Town and UTC.  In response to our series of squad and platoon attacks the CRF have been driven from city and resorted to irregular operations utilizing snipers, IEDs, and complex ambushes as a means to disrupt our operations and destabilize the local populace as they return to MOUT and UTC.  


Orientation:  The Company is currently located at UTC FOB. The Company sector is UTC bordered by Tokyo Rd to the West, MCB-5 to the East, MCB-8 to the North, and LZ Kiwi to the South. MSR Tampa is the MSR that runs N-S through MOUT Town. 


Civilian Considerations: Currently we have a limited understanding of the residual civilian populace within UTC as the populace returns to the town. What we know right now is that there is a civilian population of around 50-75 personnel in the town. The language is Spanish, with predominantly the religion being 70% Muslim, with around 30% Christian. The population tends to be significantly male heavy, at about 80%, with the women largely being regarded as homemakers, predominantly focused on child-rearing near the homes. The largest industry is farming in this AO, with the predominance of farmland growing poppy to the north of UTC. There is no known infrastructure such as plumbing and electricity in the town. UTC is predominantly divided into three districts, UTC A, B and C. The C sector is the central area of civilian population with a central marketplace IVO C35 and C36. General pattern of life are personnel conducting bartering and trading in that area during the periods of daylight. There is one known culturally sensitive area in this sector, being the Mosque at C58. Residents largely live within the C sector. In the B sector, population is sparse. There are heat signatures that appear to be residential in the NE corner of this sector, as well as some along the main E-W running MSR on the S side of the sector. In the A sector, there are very limited amounts of civilian personnel. We have identified limited heat signatures of what appears to be military age males that live and work around buildings A21-22 and A24, this group tends to rarely leave this portion of the town or move towards the farmland. These personnel have been seen moving at times to buildings within the C sector, but largely only one or two at a time. The only known governmental infrastructure in the UTC is the Police Chief, who works IVO C07. HUMINT has made contact with this individual via WhatsApp and he is our only known contact on the deck. Our assessment is that he is looking to re-establish the way of life in UTC, but has limited security forces in the AO. We assess that he will be our best POC to establish a long term security relationship with the populace here. The only significant breach from pattern of life has was last week when there appeared to be an explosion IVO A39. Based on civilian chatter picked up via cell phone comms, there was talk of a little girl being injured due to some fertilizer that caught fire near that building, permanently maiming the girl. Pattern of life since then has largely returned to normal, but market place operations were largely suspended for the three days following the blast. 




I. Situation


A. Enemy:  


COMPOSITION, DISPOSITION, AND STRENGTH – An enemy squad sized element is believed to have infiltrated the local populace of UTC and are planning to conduct harassing attacks against US forces. Four hours ago enemy forces were observed emplacing IEDs IVO UTC. They are armed with Soviet style small arms, to include Machine Guns, and IEDs.




CAPABILITIES AND LIMITATIONS – 
The enemy will not initiate sustained contact with US Forces. The enemy is using guerilla tactics to inflict casualties on security patrols in order to destabilize the town of UTC. The enemy will use IEDs to initiate ambushes and cover the withdraw of their forces. Once the enemy has gained control of the local populace and limited the effects of the security patrols of US forces they will mass to a platoon sized element and conduct a deliberate attack on UTC FOB IOT regain control of the area. 


EMLCOA:  I believe the enemy is currently identifying choke points and emplacing IEDs to interdict friendly patrols. If afforded the freedom of movement among local populace they will seek to destabilize security operations and hinder civic rebuilding actions. They will initiate contact with sniper fire, IEDs, and complex ambushes before immediately withdrawing to increase survivability. Upon gaining control of urban centers the enemy will mass to a platoon sized element and conduct a deliberate attack on UTC FOB IOT regain control of the region and reestablish legitimacy.


B. Friendly:


1. HIGHER 


a. Mission: O/O, BLT  2/7 clears the Battalion AO of irregular CRF forces IOT deny irregular CRF forces the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts IVO MOUT and UTC. 
. 


2. ADJACENT


             Fox Co., SE 1, O/O interdict CRF forces IVO TA-16 IOT deny enemy forces the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts in the AO. BPT assume the role of the ME. 
 
Echo Co., SE2, is the Battalion reserve located IVO Camp Barrett. BPT assume the role of the ME. 




3. SUPPORTING: None
Company 60mm mortar section is occupying MFP1 at UTC FOB. DOF 3200 mils. 
EOD is on stand-by for platoon patrols.  Platoon commanders must coordinate per platoon.
        
4. ATTACHMENTS/DETACHMENTS: Upon request, platoons conducting patrol will be provided an interpreter prior to your entrance into the town (UTC).
Effective immediately, 3rd platoon has 1 MMG Squad Attached


II. Mission. 


        Golf Co., ME, Interdict the enemy IVO UTC and MOUT town IOT deny the CRF the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts in the Bn AO.


III. Execution.   


A. Cmdr’s Intent 


Purpose:  Establish a secure local environment for the indigenous population so they can pursue their economic, social, cultural, and political well-being and conduct civic reconstruction IOT achieve local governance achieve some degree of local normalcy. 


Method: 
CG – the ability to blend into the local populace gives the enemy the freedom of movement to emplace IEDs and initiate harassing attacks on US forces.


CV – the enemy’s small size prevents them from massing and sustaining contact with friendly forces.


Exp – We will exploit the enemy CV by providing a continuous security presence to the area that disrupts the enemy’s ability to emplace IEDs and conduct attacks. 




End state: The irregular CRF forces are eliminated and the civilians are able to pursue normalcy of living. Remaining CRF forces are eliminated and civic reconstruction efforts continue unopposed. 


B. Concept of Operations:


1. SOM: We will have 1 ME and 2 SEs. Direction of Movement (DOM) is generally north. SE 1 will depart the Company FOB at UTC and make movement north to the intersection of Tokyo Road and MCB-8 where they will establish a hasty vehicle checkpoint. SE 2 will protect a resupply patrol and then stage at UTC FOB to act as QRF for the ME. The ME will depart the Company FOB and make movement west to UTC where they will conduct a security patrol. All Units are required to develop their own routes and back brief the Company Commander prior to departing. Upon completion of the mission the platoons will execute the Company rotation plan IOT sustain security presence in the area. 
        
 FSP:  500m No Fire Area (NFA) has been established by the BLT Co over MOUT Town and UTC Bravo.  


C. Tasks:


(You) 3rd Platoon: You are the ME. O/O Interdict CRF forces IVO UTC IOT deny enemy forces the ability to influence civic reconstruction efforts in the Company’s AO.


2nd Platoon:  You are SE 1. O/O Establish a hasty vehicle checkpoint IVO the Toyko Road and MCB-8 intersection to interdict CRF forces IOT deny enemy freedom of movement in the AO.


1st Platoon (MOUNTED Patrol Platoon):  You are the SE2. O/O, protect the resupply convoy from MOUT FOB to link up point IVO LZ STORK in order to resupply the Golf Co Class V (ammo) to support their operations. BPT stage IVO UTC FOB to serve as Co QRF for adjacent platoons cutting operations within UTC.






D. Coordinating Instructions:


(1) 500m NFA over town UTC.
(2) DOM: North and North/West for all units
(3) TOA: O/O
(4) Rules of Engagement: A considerable number of civilians have returned to the village of UTC. Individuals carrying a weapon are NOT declared hostile. Engage only Hostile Forces and Combatants. A Hostile Force is any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or terrorists, with or without national designation, that has committed a hostile act, exhibited hostile intent, or has been declared hostile by appropriate U.S. authority. Hostile forces may also be called Enemy Combatants. Hostile Act (HA): an attack or other use of force against U.S. forces. Some examples of possible hostile intent are an individual burying a suspicious cylinder along a road (likely improvised explosive device), an unknown armed group massing in your area of operation, or an unknown vehicle speeding to catch up with your convoy. Positive Identification (PID)* is required to engage. 
*Positive Identification (PID): A reasonable certainty that your target is a legitimate military target. 
*PID does not require 100% certainty. You must have clear line of sight to target and know what is behind it.
(5) ORP:  UTC FOB 
(6) LD:  FOB ECP
(7) Timeline: Platoon Commanders will develop individual timelines.  Plan for roughly 2 ½ hours prior to LD through consolidation and re-supply.   
(9) ME: Upon entering UTC you must link up with the town Police Chief IVO building C07 in UTC IOT conduct a partnered patrol with local police forces. 
(10) Reporting Criteria: Enemy contact (Engagement or Sniper Fire), IED find, Casualty, Upon reaching checkpoints.
(11) MOPP Level: MOPP Ready.  Intel reports enemy has used a blood agent in the past and is currently 
capable of employing a blood agent.    


IV. Administration and Logistics


Admin:


CASEVAC Plan: Platoon Commanders will establish CCPs as necessary.  Ensure you mark the CCP for QRF link up.  Platoon Commanders are responsible for back briefing COC the CASEVAC plan prior to crossing LD. 


EPW Plan: Platoon Commanders will establish EPW collection points as necessary.  Utilize STRESS.


Lost Marine Plan: Platoon Commander directed.


Logistics:


One DOS for chow, water, and ammunition. Platoon’s will step with 1 DOS chow, water, ammo at minimum.
Chow, water, ammunition drawn IAW squad patrol timeline.
In addition to standard small arms ammunition, squads will receive 2TA smoke and 3grenades (practice fuses) as requested
Additional requests for equipment or supplies will be submitted through the Company GySgt.  


V. Command and Signal


Signal:
Frequencies in accordance with CEOI.
Call Signs:
        - Golf Co: Godfather
           -Plts: WH 1,2,3


Signals and marks:


Additional signals determined by Platoon Commanders.  Ensure QRF l/u signal is back briefed to COC prior to crossing LD
No Comm Plan: TBD by Platoon Commander.


Command:
 CCIR’s  
1) IEDs (IED strike or IED find)
2) Contact with the enemy CRF forces
3) All friendly casualties
4) Any injury or death of local national as a result of friendly fire or action.
5) Damage to civilian infrastructure as a result of friendly fire or action.
Location of Key Leaders:
Company Commander will be located in the FOB.